SERIOUS CALL 



DEVOUT AND HOLY IJFE ; 

ADAFTED TO TBE 

STATE AND CONDITION 



ALL ORDERS OF CHRISTIANS. 



By WILLIAM LAW, A. M. 



BIGBTESNTB I 



TO WHICH la ADDER, 

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE AUTHOR, 



THREE LETTERS TO A FRIENB. 



tfe (hat bath «ara to hear, let bim hear. St. Luke vlt 8. 

And beboM I come quickly, uid mj reward ii with me, 

, Rev. mU. 12. 



BOSTON : 

PVBLISMED Br T. BXDLIItGTON, NO. 47, CORKmU:. 
H. B. Stickney, Frinltr, Jfacburyparl. 

• ' 1821. 






mGooglc 



CONTENTS. 



CHAP. I. 

FJfiE. 

CONCERNIXa the nature and extent of Cbriitian 

CHAP. II. 
An enqtnry into the reason, why the generality of 
ChrMtiam fall w Cat ^ort of the holmeu uid dcrotioo of 
Christiuiitj'. X 

■ CHAP. III. 
Of the great danger and folly of not intending to be 
Bs enuneot and eiemplaiy a* we can, in the practice of all 
Christiali Tirtaei. _ 44 

CHAP. IV. 
We can please God in no state or condition of life, 
bat bj inteading and deroting it bH to hii faonmu and 
^oiy. GS 

CHAP. V. 
Persons dial are free from the necesai^ of labouf 
and eiDployments are to coDaider tbtmielTei *» deroled to 
Clod in a higher degree. 70 

CHAP. VI. 
Containing the gt^at obligations, and the great ad- 
*aiilage> of maluiig a niie and religioiu uae of oui eitatei 
uid fartunei. 7T 

CHAP. VII. 
How the imprudent use of an estate corrupts all the 

teiiipen of 'hp mind, and fiUi the heart witb poor and ri- 
tiicu'ouB passions, through the whole coucte of life ; repro- 
sfiBted in Iha ciiaracter of flaf ia. 86 



_' Google 



CHAP. VIII. 
How the wise Jind pi«u9 use of an estate, nalurally 

canieth us to great perfection in all the virtuei or the 
Ctiriatian life ; rcprE^nted in the cbaracter of Miranda. Sfs 

CHAP. IX. 
Containing some redectioDS apon the life of Miranda; 

snd thcvi'mg how it amy, and oaght to be imitated bif all 
Uer ics. 10^ 

CHAP. X. 
Shemng how all orders and ranks of men and wo- 
men ofall ^ei, are obliged to devote themseWei unto Ood. 1 Vt 

CHAP. XL 
Shewing how great devotion fills our IJyee with (he 
p'eatcgt peace and bappinesi that can be enJQjsd in tbte 
world. 1^1 

CHAP. XII. 
The happiness of a life wholly devoted onto God, 

farther proved, from the vanity, (he sensuality, and the ri' 
dicuioui, poor enjoyments, which they are forced to take 
"p with, who live ticconliiig to their own huiaoun. This 



CHAP. XIIL 
Thai not only a life of vanity, or sensuahty, but eves 
the mo-i regular kind of life, that is not governed by ■ 
great devotion, auWlcienlly »hewa its miseries, its wants, ■ 
and empCinets, to the eyes of all the world. This repre- 
leated in various charaoters. 1! 

CHAP. XIV. 
Concerning that pari of devotion which relates to 

times and boura of prayer. Of daily early prayef in the . 
morning. How we are to improve our formi, of prayer, 
and how to increase the spirit of devotion. Il 

CHAP. XV. 
Of chanting or singing of psalms in our private devo- 
tions. Of the excellency and bFncBt of this kind of devo- 
tion. Of the great effects it hath upon our hearts. Of the 
Hiaame af twrforraing it in tk« Ik« manner. IE 



** 



I, Google 



CHAP. XVI. 
B£COiDRieiidiBe; d^rotion at nine o^clock ia the morn- 
ing, ctilled in Scripture (he third hour of the daj. Ths 
tt&jeatottbeteprajea ithumititj. 3l 

CHAP. XVII. 
Shewing^ how dlfficuU the practic« or humility ia 
made, bf the genera) spirit :u)d lemperorthe world. How 
Chriitiamty requireth us to live cootruy'to tbe world. H 

CHAP. XVIII. 
Shewing how the education which men generally re- 
ceive in their youth, makes the doctrine of hmnility diffi- 
cult to be prBcti)ied. The ^irit of a better education, rep- 
feaented in the cbumcter of Patemua. Si 

CHAP. XIX. 
Shewing how the method of educatiog; danghtera, 
nakei it difficult for them to enter into the spirit ofChrii- 
tian humili'y. How nuserablj they are injured ind abused 
bj luch an education. The spirit nfabetter education re- 
prewnted in the charaJtIer of Euiebia. SI 

CHAP. XX. 
Recommendii^ devotion at twelve oVIock, called in 
3cri()ture the liith hour of the da j. Thisfrequancy ofde- 
Totion equally desirable b; all orders of people. Unireraal 
lore ia here recommended to be tbe sobject of prayer at 
-thii hold-. Of inteTcesaion, as an act of uniTenal love. 2' 

CHA.P. XSJ. 
Of the necessity and henefit or intercession, consider* 
ed as an eierciae of uaiveraallove. How all order) of men 
are to pray arid intercede with God for one another. How 
Naturally luch intercession amendg and relcrni) tbe bearta 
■fthosethatnaeit. SJ 

CHAP. XXII. 
Itecomman^og devotioQ at three o'clock, called !■ 
Scripture the ninth hour of the day- The subject of prayer 
at tbia hoar, i* reiJE^atioa to the divine plediiire. The 
nature and duty of coaforiaity to the will of God in all our 
ActioDf and designs. * 9 



CHAP. xxnr. 

Of CTcnin^ pmyer. Of the oature and necessity of ' 

eiaiiiinaticn. How we are fo be particular in the confes- 
■ioD cif all our emt. How we are to fill our niinda ffilii a 
iiiat liorrar an<] dread of all sin. 32t 

CHAP. XXIV. 
The conclus'on. Of the excellency and greatnessof 
a devont spirit. 3U 



in Google 



SOME ACOODNT 



BEV. WILLIAM LAW. 



To irliicb are mtjoioed. Two Letten fnsta CtergjiBan in Iht Es- 
tobluhed Church, strooE;!; reconuBendiDi; the Sbriois Call, 
dnd other worhj of the Author! also hia Character, tce.hj Ed- 
VARD GiBBojt, Eiq. (he RomaD Hutoriau, and a Lit of all his 
Work*. 



THE ReT. WiLUAif L*w was boro in the town of 
King's Cliffe, in the county of Northampton, in the year 
1686 ; his e<tucation, and the enrly yenrB of bis life, were 
very serious ; at what time he entered the University, or 
when be took bis deg^ree of A. M. cannot be exactly as- 
certuned, but his leaving that place was about the year' 
1712 ; after having made ^eat proficiency in every 
branch of human literature, alterwards taking (he advice- 
of our Saviour to the rich young man, he totally re- 
Bounced the world, and followed Christ, in meekness 
ftnmility, and self-denials 

Mr. Law was a bachelor all hifl life-time : in person, 
be was a welt set man, and rather of a dark complexion, 
though remarkably cheerful in his temper; such wai 
his love of privacy, and a state of recollection, that it 
was very seldom indeed that he pas«ied more than two 
hours in the company of any ponton; with a rery small 
patrimony, he was remarkably charitable, particularly to 
Iiis poor neighbours, tl>? manufacturers of wooden ware, 
in and about King's Ctiffe; in this benevolent dispositioa 
be was joined by the tt«o maiden ladies, with whom be 
resided at King's Cliffe ; their object was not to encour- 
age the idle and dissolute, but to promote and facilitate 
me ^ooi tRtentioM h^ eadeavourS of (be ^nstiious- 



vB. SOME ACCatINT OF, 

3ach also was the little ralne he set on money, that he 
gave the copies of all his works intended for publication 
ta bis bookseller; bat for one of them, Messrs. Richard- 
sons and Urquhart, ioHsted upon bis acceptance of one 
hunilred guineas. 

We shall now relate part d'what he uttered in bis last 
illness, which was witnessed bj the friend to whom he 
addressed the three letter* which accompany this work. 
— %fust before his blessed soul took its happy flight, to 
dwell forever with the sainta in bliss; the heavenly glory 
so opened itielf in him, that be broke forth into the 
following exultation, which shewing the truth of his 
own highly regenerate state, as well as the joyfiil reality 
of the life of God in the soul of man, deserves to be 
written m letters of gold, not only to convince the infidel, 
but also to comfort and confirm the pious pilgrim, in hii 
journey through the thorny wilderness of this world, into 
the peaceful regions of immortal bliss. 

" Away with these lilthy garments ;" said this dying 
saint, " I feel a sacred fire kindled. in my soulj which wilt 
destroy every thii^ conlrai? to itself, and bum as a flame 
of divine love to all eternity." 

In such a triumph of holy joy did thu eztraordinaTT 
servant of God resign his blessed spirit into the hanoi 
of his beloved Lord and Master, at the place of his na« 
tivity, the town of King's Cliffe, in the County of Hortlv- 
ampten. And in the church-yard of that parish, he lies 
interred, under a handsome tomb, erected to his memory, 
by a particular and dear friend, who lived meoy yeaot 
with bim, and therefore had long known, and highly and 
justly esteemed his sii^nlar worth : which was expressed 
in the followii^ lines, engraved by the direction of the 
same friend, on the top-stone oi ba tomb : 

HERE LTETH THE BODY 



BBF. WILLIJM LAW, S. JH. 

WHO DIED AFIUL 9, 1761, 



THE REV. W. LAW. h.- 

He was well known to the world by a namber of truly 
christian, pious writings, exemplitied by a life spent in n 
manner suitable to a worthy and true disciple of hii 
faeaTeoly, divine, crucified Master and Sariour, Jesu< 
Christ, who lired and spoke in him and by him. In 
his younger days, he sufficiently distinguished himself, 
by his parts and progress in human literature. After- 
wards taking the advice of our Saviour to the rich young 
roan, he totally renounced the world and followed Christ, 
iD' meekness, humility aaA self-denia). And in his last 
jtiBars, he was wholly absorbed in his lore to God and 
Qiankind ; so that virtue in him was nothing but heftvcnlj 
Ipre and heavenly flame. 



In parts and sense, inferior to none, 

With wit most amiable, with learning stored ; 

His talents, great and high, were quite siiblimeil, 

In loving God with all his heart and mipd. 

Hia time was all employM in things divine, 

By serving God, in goodacss to mankind. 

The poor, the maim'd, the blind, have lost in him, 

The kind protector, and the ready friend. 

Some time after his decease, the following verses ap- 
peared in print: 



■nithe memorj af that eiceTient man, and truly illuminated <K- 
vine, tbe late Rer. Willian Law, a. m. The^ rollowlog 
line! are ofl^red'by one who tuu receired great benefit from 
hii loeit valuable worki. 



Fakewell, good man ! whose great and heavenly mind, 
la love embraced the whole of bumna kind, 
From earth's dark scene, to realms of joy and light, 
Thy soul congenial, took her happy Hight ; 
With kindred spirits mis'd, and bright as they. 
Thou drink'st with them the streams of endless day ; 
While we below lament thy absence most. 
Like ail bae worth, thea dearest, when 'tis lail;' 



Google 



s, . SOME ACCOUST <»* 

Bound to no sect, to no one par^ tied,. 
To 90IM of God in eveiy clime allied : 
Like light's great orb, to qo oae realm coofin'd, . 
Thy heaTen-taQght soul, capacioua, grasp'd mwikind. 
Of pains severe, thon felt'st the tort'ring smart. 
While grace pour'd comfort on thj better part 
Thy will resign'd, with breath unmurmuring bore, 
*Thy last sharp passage to the heavenly shore. 
Thy heart's beat image, still, thy writings, shine, 
One spirit breathe, the dove and lamb divine. [charm, 
Though stopt thy tongue, thy soul's strong breathings 
Though cold thy cfay, thy ardent thoughts stiU warm. 
Awak'd by thee, we feel the heavenly fire, 
And with seraphic flames to God aspire ; 
Thy pious zeal transfua'd to other hearts. 
New springs of bliss, and nobler hfe imparts. 
No time, no numbers, can exhaust thy mine. 
Thy gifts are full ■- posterity is thine. 
Through future ages shall thy labonrs go, 
Ijke streums, enriching nations as they flow ; 
Who, while perusing, catch the sacred lire,. 
Tetch the deep sigh, aod pant with strong desire, 
For glory lost r heaven lent thy pencil ra^ 
To paint that glory, and diffuse its blaze. 
Though for these days thy colours are too bright, 
I And hurt weak eyes by their too radiant light; 
Yet wisdom's sons, though few, to good awake, 
Drmk thy sweet spring, and bread celestial break. 
'M:dst Babel's various longaes, though thouaoda str^ 
In tliee, the wanderer finds his master's way. 
In heaps let critics, commentators lie. 
Thy works will make a Christian library. 
In vain shall malice seek to wound thy n»me, 
Or ignorance thy solid worth defame. 
Retract your censures, you who d;>re be good j 
Confess your heads ne'er yet have understood 
The pearls, which God to mystic sons reveai'd; 
From the presumptuous, wisdom's fount is seai'd. 
Tel this her child, wants no man's pen to praise, 
Nor slander dreads in these degenerate days : 

* Hi> enJ wai hutened b^ a lappreiaion of urine. 



TSE REV W. LAW. ^ 

Far nobler mfmotMnts will guttrd hu fune, 
I>eep in tbeir breaate tite good engrave bis name. 

The following are the remarkB of Edward Gibbon, 
Esq. on the Rev. Mr. Law. and hit works, extracted 
from bit memoirs in 2 vols. 4to. 

tSia words sre : 

" Mr. Law <Sed at an advanced ag«^ of a aupfveseioD 
»r urine, in 176), at the borne of Mrs. Heather Oihboo, 
known by the name of the Clille, in Northampton- 
abire, where she still restcieg. Id that lamil; he has left 
the reputatioB of a worth; and emineoti; pious man, 
trho believed all that he professed, and pmctised all 
tiMt he enjoined. The ch«racter of a Non-juror, which 
be held to the Ist, is a snfficienl evidence of the tena- 
«ia<wness of his principles ID Chmvh and State; ancf the 
sacrifice of his interest to his conscience will be alwajt 
respectable. 

** HiB theological writings, which onr domestic coa. 
••ems induced me to read, preserve an amiable thou^ 
imperfect sort of life, in my opinion ; bat here, pei- 
bapa, I pronounce with more confidence thun know- 
ledge on the merits of the men no pen can justify. His 
last compositioDB seemed tmctured too much with the 
mjBtic entbosiasm of Jacob Behmen ; and bis disconrse 
•n the absolute unlawfiibsss of the stage may be call- 
ed a ridicnloas inlempenmce of wntiment and lao- 
gnage. 

" Bvt these sallies of phrenzy must not eitiagnish the 
praise that is due to Mr. Law, as a wit and- a scbolar.— 
His aiforaeala mi topics of less absurdity is specious and 
actrte ; his manner is lively, his style forcible and clear ; 
and had not the vigour of his mind been clouded by en- 
thusiasm, he might be ranked with the most agreeaSk 
sod ingenious writers of the times. 

" White the Bangoriao controversy was a fashionable 
theme, he entered the lists. He resumed the contest 
ttgaio with Bishop Hoadly, in which his Noo-juriog 
principles appear, tbo^h be approve himself e^ualk^ 

f ' Civ.MnGooglc 



sJL SOME ACCOUNT OP 

" On the appearance of tjie " Fable of the Bees," he 
drew bia pen against the liceDliousnesB of the doctrine 
of that writer; aod Morality and Religion must rejoice in - 
faia applause and vicloi^. 

" Mr. Law's master-piece, the " Serious Call," is 
itill read as a popular and powerful book of devotion. — 
His precepts are rigid, but they are formed and denved 
Irom the Gospel ; his satire is ebarp, but his wisdom is 
from the knDwle<%e of human litf^ ; and many of fais 
portraits are not unworthy ^e pen of La Bruyere. If 
there yet exists a spark of piety m bis reader's min<t, be 
will soon kindle it to a fiame ; and a philosopher must 
allow that he is more consistent in his pnnciples than 
any of the tribe of mystic writers. He handles with 
equal Hevefity and truth the strange contradiction be- 
tween faith and practice in the Christian world. Under 
the names of Flavia and Miranda, he has admtrobly de- 
scribed Mr- Gibbon's two aunts, the worldly and tbtf 
pioB* sisters." 

Such is 'the character this famous historian is conv- 
pellcd by the sp;rit of truth, to give to the piety and 
goodness of Mr. Law, the most eminent and oi^inal 
writer of his dny ; the list of his works which we dow 
insert, together wilh two excellent letters from clei^y- 
men in the established Church, referring to them and 
him, is taken from the Gent. Mag. Nov. I8(X>. 

His works are, 

1. A sarious Call to a devont and holy Life, adapted 
to the State and Condition of all Orders of Christiana, 
fivo. 

i, A Practical Treatise upon Christian Perfection, 

evo. 

3- Three Letters to the Bishop of Bangor, 8ro. 

4. Remarks upon a late Book, entitled, " The FaWfe 
flf the Bees ; or Private Vices Public Benetits." Svo. 
^5. The absolute unlawfnhiess of Stage Entert^omenti 
fully demonstrated, 8vo. 

6. The Case of Reason, or Natural Religion, fairly 
and fully stated, 8ro. \ 

7, An earnest and serious Answer to Dr. Trapp't 
Discourse of the Folly, Sin asd Danger, of beii^ i^h^ 
eoua over much. 8ro. 



THE B£V. W. LAW. siu 

■9. The Grounds and Reasons of Chriitian Regeaertt- 
tiOD, 8to 

9. A DemonstralioD of the gnea and fimdamental 
Errors of a late Book, called "A plain Accoantofthe 
Nature and End of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper," 
affectioDStely addressed (o all Orders «f Hen, and more 
especially to all the younger Clei^, 8vo. 

10. An Appeal to all that doubt or disbelieve the 
Tnitbs of the (i^el. Bto. 

11. The Spirit of FJrayer; or the Soul rising oot of 
the Vani^ of time into the Biches of Etetni^. In Two 
Parts, Sto. 

12. The Spirit of Love. In Two Parts.Sro. 

13. The Way to Divine Knowledge ; being sereral 
Dialogues between Humanus Academicus Rasticus, 
and Theophilus, as preparatory to a new Edition of the 

. Works of Jacob Behmen, and the right Use -of them, 8to. 

14. A short but sufficient Confutation of the Rer. Dr. 
Warburton's projected Defence (as he calls it) of Chiis- 
tiaiuty, in his Divine Legation of Moses. In a Letter to 
Qa lUght Rev. the Lord Bishop of Londmi. 

15. A Collection of Letters on fbe most interesting and 
important Subjects, and on several Occasions, 8vo. 

16. Of Justification by Faith and Works j a Dialogue 
between a Methodist and a Churchman, 8vo. 

17. An humble, earnest, and affectionate Address t« 
ihe Clergy, 8»o. 



Scarborough, Deeanber 21, 1771. 



"As I have an wuversal love and esteem for all tnan- 
kind, so particularly for my brej^ren of the Established 
Church, of ivhich 1 should thA myself an unworthy 
member, did I not take all opportunities of doing good 
Bccordiog to the abilities with which God has enabled 
. me. But as I have ever thought a concern for men's 



ilr - SOME ACCOUNT OF 

souls to be preferable to tiiat of tbeir bodies, so I have 
ia a more especial maaner extended my chaJrity to tbst 
better part. We live in an age wherein nomerotis 
objects present themselves to our view, that are destitute 
of every virtue that can make them worthy of*the di- 
vine favour, and consequently there never will be Want- 
ing occasions for exercising ourselvee in a laudable en- 
deavour to their amendment I, for my own part, 
though I live, (when at home) in a^mall country village, 
have had sufficient work upon my hands to bring my 
parishioners to jny tolerable degree of piety and good- 
ness: 1 preached and laboured amongst them inces- 
santly, and yet, after;a1l, was convinced my wotk bad 
been as fruitless as casting pearls before swine ; the 
drunkard co^ntinued his nocturnal practices, and the 
voice of the swearer was still heard in our streets. How- 
ever, I w^ determined to leave no means untried for 
bringing this pcofane and obdurate people to a sense of 
their duty ; accordingly I pnrchased many religious 
booki^ and distributed them amongst them : hut, alas r 
I coHld perceive no visible effects. In short, I had t&e 
grief to find, that all my labour had proved in vain, and 
was ready'to cry out with St. Paul, who 'is sufficient 
for these thii^? About this time I happened (o pemse 
a treatise of Mr. Law's, entitled^ " A aerions Call to a 
devout and holy Life ; with which (if 1 may be allowed 
the expression) I was so charmed and greatly edified, 
that 1 resolved my flock should partake of the same spir- 
itual food; I therefore gave to each person inmy'par- 
ish one of those useful books, and charged them upon 
my blessing (for I consider them as my children)jo care- 
fully peruse the same. My perseverance was now re- 
warded with success; and I had the satisfaction of be- 
holding my people reclaimed, from a Ufe of folly and 
impiety, to a life of holiness and devotion. 

" Before I cooclnde, I must beg leave to recommend 
the afore-mentioned book to the perusal of all your read- 
ers ; and 1 heartily w»h they may receive as much 
benefit therefrom, as tfiose have who are conunitted to 
my charge. 

" This excellent treatise is wrote in a strong and ner- 
vous style, a^d abounds with many new and sublimtt < 



THE REV. W. LAW. it 

thoughts ; ID a word, ooe may saj of this book as Sir 
Richard Steel did of a discourse of Dr. South's that it 
has jQ it whatever wit and wisdom can put toother ; aod 
I wilt venture to add, that whoever gils down without 
prejudice aad alteotively reads it throughout, will rise 
op the wiser mao aod better Christiaa. 

" It remaii» now cmly that I meotion a word or two 
coDcenung the author. This worthy clergyman haa 
been accused (by those lukewarm Christians, who ridi- 
cule all degrees of piety, that are above the common , 
stsodard). of Methodism ; a charge as false as it is Cfuel..^- 
1 Bay not this as my own private opinion, but from the 
teslidiony of several gentlemen of undoubted credit, who 
ve acquainted with hie manner of life and conveisation. 
ladeed this is sufficiently demonstrated in many parts 
of this author^s woriis, particularly in his Three Letters 
lo the Bishop of Bangor, wherein he writes in viodica- 
lion of the rites and ceremonies of the Church of Eng- 
™id. All 'which evidently declare the reverend author 
to be an orthodos divine, and an indefat^^le labourer in 
the Lord's yineyard. f^' Ouramius." 

2. "Sir, ' JVor(fc-Cmii>%, Fe6. 6(fi, 1771. 

"i perused the letter signed Ouranius in your paper* 
wth that cordial complacenpy which every faithful stew- 
ard mu3t_reel, from observing the furtherance of his 
master's interest : and 1 devoutly wish that every other 
lellaw-labourer was as assiduous in sowing the good seed, 
M the enemy seems in sowing the tares. 

"But while 1 approve and applaud Ouranius'e zeal 
|n recommending that escelleot practical summary of 
Christian duty, the Serious Call, I seem to regret the 
lioiitation of it to that treatise alone, when to me it ap- 
pears that a serious attention to those sublime tracts of 
^e same divinely illuminated writer, " The Spirit of 
Prayer," and " The Spirit of Love," would be produc- 
'ive of at least equal advaiitag(!S, especially at a season 
when the serpent is wipding about, insinuating liis dead- 



% 



SOME ACCOUNT Oi- 
ly poison in arrogant illustration;, and anlicliristian Famt 
Bibles. 

' To know Tfhom we worship, to entertain proper' 
notions of GOD, is the &nt necessary principle of true 
religion. And these volumes are calculated to convey 
Buch exalted and amiable ideas of God, and to unfold in 
(0 rational and delightful a n>anner, the great mysteries 
of redemption and regeneration, that whoever peruaes 
them with candour and attention will find in them a 
perfect key to the Holy Scriptures, "having (if I may 
be allowed the sacred language) the Glory of God, and 
his light, like unto a stone most precious, clear as crys- 
tal." And, beside informing his understanding, if they do 
not elevate his heart to an exalted pitch of love and de- 
votion to his great benefactor, and cause it to overflow in 
streams of grateful benevolcace to all maokiod, be must 
he among those obdurate insensibles who need our pi(j 
and our prayers. 

" The happy effects here promised are aot the mere 
speculative CQ|i|ctures of fancy, for I have only describ- 
ed what were^K <>'™ feelings upon the same occasion. 
And J will farTOr venture to declare, that I received 
more light and satisfaction from the perusal of these httle 
rolumes'than I have been able to extract from many vol- 
umes of letter-learned commentators, darkened illustra- 
tions and bodies of Divinity, which I had before care- 
fully read with the same temper and desire. 

"I am so far in the same unfortunate predicament 
with Ouranius, never to have enjoyed the blessedness of 
that holy man's conversation ; but I have it well autheo- 
ticated that he faithfully practised what he taught, or, 
in Burkitt's words, that his was " a preaching life m 
well as a preaching doctrine." And that pious disregard 
and contempt of the riches and honours of the world, 
which he so pathetically recommends to others, himself 
eminently displayed in refusing some of the best prefer- 
ments in the bishop of London's gift when proffered by 
his friend Dr. Sherlock, 4n reward of the unanswerable 
letters to the Bishop of Bangor. 

'* The charge «i Methodism 1 never heard insinuated 
against him, and could proceed only from those who 
most be toUlly ignorantof the tenets of that sect, or ui>- 



THE REV. W. LAW. . zrii 

acquainted with aoy among the writinga of onr able de- 
fender of church dtsciplioe and anthorily, and eRpecialty 
of the last except one, "on justification by Faith and 
Works." 

" But not to leare mjself liable to reprefaeosloD fw 
the partiaUt; 1 have noticed ia another, I am persuaded, 
that whoever has imbibed knowledge at this pure foun- 
tam will never cease thirsting while there remaim a 
drop of the sacred spring uatasted. And that eveiy 
•crip of that divinely-directed pen may be aa extansiv^ 
aa the writer's benevolence, is the ardent prayer of your 
uncere well-wisher, 

" TBeopHiLos." 

Yours, &c. Z. Cozens. 

The following are the Author's Letters to a Friend. 
LETTER 1.* 

Worthy owf dtar Sir, . 

My heart embraces you, with all tfae tenderness and 
aflection of christian love ; and 1 earnestly beg of God 
to make me a messenger of his peace lo your soul. 
. YoD seem to apprebcod 1 may be much surprised at 
Jlplpnccfiuot yau have ^ven of yourself But. Sir, I am 
neither surprised nor offended at it. ) neither condemn 
nor lament your state : but shall endeavour lo shew you 
how soon it may be made a blessing and happiness to you. 
Id order to which, I shall not enter into a consideration 
of the different kinds of trouble you have set forth at 
lai^e. I think it better lo lay before you the one true 
ground and root, from whence all the evil and disorders 
ofhumao life have sprung. This will make it easy for 
you to see, what that is, which m^t and only can, be the 
ful^emedy and relief for all of them, how difiere at soev- 
er, either in l^ind or degree. 

The scripture has assured us, that God made man in 
his own image and likeness; a sufficient [froof, that man, 
in his first slate, as be came forth from God, must have 



^ai SOME ACCOUNT OF 

been absolutely free from- all vamty, want, or distreu of 
any kind, from any thing, either within or without him. 
It would be quite absurd and blasphemous to suppose, 
that a creature beginning to exist in the image and like* 
nes8 of God, should have a vanity of life, or vexation of 
spirit A God-like perfection of nature, and a painftd 
distressed nature, stand in the utmost contrariety to one 
another. 

Again, the scripture has assured us, that man that 10 
bom of a woman hath biit a short time to live, and is full 
of misery : therefore man now is not that creature that 
he was by his creation. The first divine and God-Uke 
nature of Adam, which was to have been immortally . 
holy in union yiith God is lost, and instead of it, a poor 
mortal of earthly flesh and blood, bgm like a wild ass's 
colt, of a short Ufe and full of misery, is, through a. vain 
pilgrimage, to end in dust and ashes. Therefore let 
every evil, whether inward or outward, only teach yon 
this truth, that man has infallibly lost bis first divine life 
in God ; and that no possible comfort, or deUverance, is 
to be expect^ but only in this one thing, that though 
man has lost his God, yet God is become man, that man 
may be again alive in God, as at his first creation. For 
uU the misery and distress of human nature, whether of 
body or mind, is wholly owing to this one cause^^^t 
God is not in man, nor man in God, as the state ^BffV^ 
nature retjuires : it is because man has lost that first lite 
of God in his soul, in and for which he was created. He 
lost this light and spirit and life of God, by turniDg . - 
his will, imagination, and desire into a taat^g and sensibil-Jv' 
ity of the good and evil of this earthly, bestial world. ^'. 

Now here are two things raised up in man, instead of 
the life of God :— First ; self or selfishness, brought forth 
by his choosing to haw 3 wisdom of his own,, contrary to 
the will and iostmclKt of hi* Creator. Secondly ; tta 
earthly bestial, mortal life and body, brought fvrA by 
his eating that food, wbiCJi was poison to his paradisiacal 
nature. Both these must tlierffore be retpoved ; that is, 
a man must Bsnt totally die to self, and all earthly desireE, 
views and intentions, before be .can be again in God, aa 
Jiis nature and fiftt creation requires. 

Sut now, if this be a certun and immntable trutb, that- 



THE REV. W. UW. sCC 

nan, w long a»-he ia a selfish earthly miniled ereatnre', 
mnt be deprived of his true life, the life of Ood, the 
q>irit of hearen in hia soul; thea how ia Uie &ce o( 
things changed ; for then, what life ia ao much to be 
dreaded, as a Ufe of woridly ease and prosperity f what 
t misery, nay, whart a corse, is there In erery thing that 
gratifies and nourishes our self-love, self-esteem and self 
Keking ? On the other hand, what a happiness is there 
in all inward and outward troubles and vexations, when 
they force us to feel and know the hel) that is hidden 
withio U9, and the vanity of every thing without as : when 
they turn our letf-lore into self-abhorrence, and force at 
' to call upon God, te save us from oarselv^, to give us a 
new life, new light, an'3 new spirit in Christ Jeeus. 

O happy famine ! might the poor prodigal have well 
laid, " wluch by reducing me to the necesai^ of asking 
to eat busks with smne,' brought me to m^lf, and 
caused my return to my dnt happiness, ia my Other's 
bouse." 

Now, sir, I will suppose your^ distressed state to be as 
you represent it ; inwardly, darkness, heMiness, and con- 
liision of thoi^hts and passions ; outwar^y, ill usage 
from friends, relations and all the world; unable to 
strike up the least spark rf light or comfort, by any 
thopght or reasoning of your own. 

' O happy famine, which leaves you not so much bb 
the husk of one human comfort to feed upon ! For my 
dear firiend, this ia the time and place for all that good 
Kod life, and salvatitn, to happen to you, which happen- 
ed to the prodigal son. Your way is as short, (uid your 
success aB certain, as his was. You have no more to do 
than be had. You need not call out for books and 
methods of devotion : for, in your present state, much 
reading, and borrowed prayers, are not your best meth- 
od. All that you are to offer to God, ri8 that is to 
help you to find him to be your Saviour an^ Redeemer, 
is best taught and expressed by the distressed slate ef 
your heart. 

Only let your present and past distress mike you feel 
and acknowledge this |wo-fold great truth : first, tfaat 
in and of yourself, you are n^lui^ but darkness, vanity 
tod misery. Secondly, that of yourself, you can no 



M SOME ACCOUNT OF 

more help yourself to ligbt and comfort, than you caa 
create aa aogel. People, at all times, caa seem to aseent 
to these two truths, but then it is an asaeot that has 'no 
depth or reality, and so is of little or no ose. But your 
condition has opened your heart, for a deep and foU 
conviction of these truths. Now give nay, 1 beseech 
you, to this conviction, and hold these two tmUu in the 
same degree of certainty, as you know two ana two to 
lie four; and then my dear friend, you sat, with the 
prodigal, come to yourself j and above half towr work 

Being now in the full possession of these two tmths, 
feelii^ them in the same degree of otrtainty, as you feel 
yoQT own existence, you are under tliis sensibility to 
give yourself absolutely and entirely to God in Christ 
JesuB, as into the hands of infinite love -. firmly believ- 
ing this great and infallible tratb, that God has no will 
towardsyou, bat that of infinite love, and iofinite desire 
to make you a partaker of his divine nature ; and that 
it is as absolutely impossible for the Father of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, to refuse you all that good, and life, and 
salvation, which you want, as it js for you to take it by 
your own power. 

O, sir, drink deep of this cup; for the predous wcter, 
of eternal hfe is in it. Turn unto God with this f^h ; 
cast your«''lf into this abysx of love ; ai.d then you wttt 
be in that state the prodigal was in, when he said, I will 
arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, father, 
I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am 
no more worthy to be called thy son ; and all that, will fte 
fulfilled in you, which is related of him. 

Make, this, therefore, the two-fold exercise of your 
heart : Now, bowing yourself down before God, in the 
deepest sense and acltnowledgement of your own noth> 
ingness andwileoess ; then, looking up to God in faith and 
love, consider him as always extending the arms of his ' 
mercy towards you, and full of an infinite desire to dwell 
in you, as he dwells in the angels in heaven. Content 
yourself with this inward and simple exercise of yonr 
heart, for a while ; and seek, or like nothing in any book 
but that which nourishes and sireoglhens this stale of 
your heart. 



tHE REV. W. LAW. xii 

^Dine onto me, eays (be hol^Jesus, all ye Ibst labour, 
and are heavy laden, and I wilt refresh yon. Here, my 
dear friead, ia more for you to live upon, more light 
for your mind, more of unction for your heart, than in 
Tolumes of haman iostructioii. Pick up the words of 
the toly Jesus, and beg: of him (o be the light and hfe 
ef your Mol : Love the soond of hia name ; for Jesus is 
the love, the sweetness, the meekness, the compassion- 
ate gioodoess of the Deity itself; which became man, 
that so men might have power to become the sons of 
God. Love, pity, and wish well to every soul in the 
world ; dwell in love, and then you dwell in God : hatie 
Bothing but tlhe evil that i-tirs in yonr own heart. 

Teach your heart this prayer till your lieart contintt- 
a% saith, tboi^h not witb outward words : " O 'holy 
JesDS, meek Lamb of God t Bread that came down from 
heaven ! Lig^ht and life of all holy souls ! help me to a 
Ime and Uving ^th in thee. do thou open thyself 
*ri(hin me, wilh all thy holy nature, spirit, tempers, and 
inclinations, that 1 may be born again of thee ; and be in 
thee a new creature, quickened and revived, led and 
p>»emed by thy holy spirit." 

Yours in all christian affection, 

W. LAW. 



LETTER II. 

July 20. 
My iJear worthy Frimd, 

Whom 1 heartiiv love in the unity of the spirit of 
Cbriat. Your long letter I received some time the last 
moath, and read with much pleaBure. For, long as it 
was, 1 did not wish it to be shorter. I bless God for lb«t 
good and right spirit, which breathed in every part of it. 
As it required no immediate answer, and you left me to 
■ay own time, so I did not intend to write till last week ; 
W by accidental affairs, have been hindered from com- 
plying with my intention till now. 

Your judgment has failed you in nothing, but in 
thioking your letter would be disagreeable to me ; or that 
my answer was deferred on that account. Every Crea- 
tnre hasipy love ; but persona of yonr spirit kindle in me 



Kxii SOME ACCOUNT Of 

every holy affection of I^nour and esteem tonards tbeib. 
Love with its fruits of meekness, patience, and humility, 
is at) that I wish, for myself, and every human creature : 
For this is to live in God, nnited to him, both for time 
and eteroif J. Would you have done with error, scru- 
ple and delusion, consider the Dei^ (as I have said) to 
be the greatest love, the g;reatest meekness, the greatest 
sweetness ; the eteroal unchangeable will to be a good 
and blessing to every creature ; and that all 'the misery, 
darkness and death, of fallen angels, and fallen men, con- 
sists in their having lost this divine nature, _ Consider 
yourself, and all the fallen world, as havii^; notbii^ to 
seek ot wish for, but by the spirit of prayer to draw into 
the life of your soul, rays and sparks of this divine, meek, 
lovll^, tender nature of God. Consider the holy Jeaus 
as the gift of God to your soul, to begin and finish the 
birth of God and heaven within you, in spite of every 
inward or outward enemy. These three infalhble truths 
heartily embraced, aad'made the nourishment of your 
soul, shorten and secure the way to heaven, and lenve no 
room for error, scruple, or delusion. The poverty of our 
fallen nature, the depraved workings of flesh and blood, 
the corrupt tempers of our polluted birth in this world, 
do us no hi»rt, so long as the spirit of prayer works con- 
trary to them, and longs for the first birth of the light ^nd 
spirit of heaven. 

All our natural evil ceases to be our own evil, as soon 
as our will-spirit turns from it ; it then changes its nature, . 
loses all its poison and death, and only becomes our holy 
cross, on which we happily die from self, and this world, 
into the kingdom of heaven. 

1 much congratulate you oif your manner of prayer; 
. so practised, it becomes the life of the souli and the true 
food of eternity. Keep in thw state of application to 
God, and then you will infallibly find it to be the way 
of rising out of the vanity of time, into the riches of 
eternity. 

Do not expect or look for the same degrees of sensible^ 
fervour. — The matter lies not there. — Nature will have 
its share') but the ups and downs of that are to be over- 
looked. — Whilst your will-spirit is good, and set right, 
the changes of creaturely fervour lessen not y#ur union 



THE KEV. W. LAW. mIU 

irilhOod. It b ihe abjrsa of tiiejheart, ao anAthonable 
depth ofeternity withb us, as much above aeoable fer- 
Toor, as heaven is above earthy it is this that works ma 
Way to God, and unites as with heaven. This ahyw of 
the heart, is the divine nature and power within us, 
which never calls npon God in vain, but wbelber helped 
OT deserted by bodily fervour, penetrates throu^ all out- 
ward nature, as easily and effectually as our thot^hta cam 
leave our bodies, and reach into the redone of eternity. 

1 am, with hear^ prayen to 

God for yon 

Tour truly affectionate ^ 

Friend and servant, 

W.LAW. 

LETTER ra. • 
^5 dear t i 

I am greatly rejoiced at your expresni^ so feeling a 
KAe of the benefit of prayer; and hope you will every 
1% be more and more raised to, and united with God, 
by it 

I love no mysterious depths, or heights of epeculhtion, 
coTet oo knowledge, want to see no ground of nature, 
grace, and creature, but so far as it brings me nearer to 
God, forces me to foiget aitd renounce every thing for 
kin, to do every thing in him, and lor him : and to give 
every breathii^, moving, stirring intention and desire of 
ny heart, soul, spirit and life to him. 

It is for the sake of the spirit of prayer, that I have 
ndeavoured to set eo many points of religion in such a 
new as must dispose the reader, willingly to give up all 
Uiat he inherits from his fallen father, to be all bungep 
■utdthirstafterGod, and have no thought or care, bat how 
to be wholly his devoted instrument, every where, ani) 
in every thhig, his adorii^;, joyful, and thaiUcful servant. 



sir S<MfE ACCOimr OF 

When it in the one rnlJDg, never ceasing de^re «f tmr 
hearts, that God ma; be the be|;inning and end, the 
leaaon and motiTe, of our doing or not doing, trom 
morning to night ; then every where, whether speakiiig 
or silent, whether inwardly or outwardly employed, we 
are equally offered up to the eternal Spirit, have oar 
life in him, and from him, and are united to him by 
that spirit of prajer, which is the comfort, the Support, 
the strength, and security of the sool, travelling, by the 
help of God, through the vanity of time into the riches 
of etemjty. ■ 

My dear friend, have eyes shut and ears stopped, to 
every thing, that is not a step in that ladder that reaches 
from earth to heaven. 

Buding is gooi], bearing is good, conversation and 
m^^ation are good ; bat then they are only good at 
times and occasions, ip a certain degree : and must be 
used and governed with soch cautioti, as we eat and 
drink, and refresh ourselves, or they will bring forth is 
us the fruits of intemperance. 

But the spirit oi^prayer, is for all times, and all occa- 
sions ; it is a lamp that is to be always burning, e light 
that is ever shilling: every thing calls for it, every thing 
i&to be done in it, and governed by it. Because it is, 
and means, and wills nothing else, but the totality of 
the soul, not doing this, or that, hut wholly, inceseanlly 
given up to God, to be where, and what, and how he 
pleases. 

This state of absolute resignation, naked faith and 
pure love of God, is the highest perfecticm and most pu- 
rified life ; cf those who are bem again from above, and 
through the Divine Fewcff, become sons of Go4< And 
is neiOier more nor less, than what our blessed Kedeem- 
er has called and qnalified us to long and aspire after, in 
these words, " Thy kingdom come : thy will be done, on 
earth as in heaven." 

Near the. conclusion of yours, you-say, since your laat 
to mc, you have met with a great many triab disagreea- 
ble to flesh and blood, but that adhering to God, is al- 
ways your blessed relief. i 

jCet permit me on this occasion^ to transcribe a joein* 



c4v=..inGooglc 



THE REv. W. law. rrt 

snodom or two, from an old BCrap of paper, nbich hai 
\fmg lain by me for my own nse. 

1. Receive every inward and outward trouble, eveij 
disappointment, pain, uneasiiiess, darkness, tcmptatiott| 
aad desolation, with both tpy handa, as n true opportv- 
mtf and blessed occasion, of dyin^t- to self, and entering 
mto a fuller feltowship with thy eelf-denying, suffering 
SaTioDT. 

i. Look at no inward, or outward trouble, in any other 
fien, reject every other thought about it ; and then eve* 
rykindof trial and distrets, will become (he blessed day 
of thy prosperity. 

3. Be afraid of seeking or finding comfort in any thing 
but God alone. For that which gives the comfort, takes 
«> mpch of thy heart from God. " Quid est cor1|)u- 
mm t cm ex foto, et pure snfficit solus Sens, cui nihil 
■apit, qaod nihil delectat, nisi Deue," That is, What 
is a pure heart? One to which God alone is totijly and 
purely sufficient ; to which nothing relishes or gives de- 
l%hl, but God alone. 

4. That slate is best, which eserciseth the highest 
luth in, and fullest resignation (o God. 

5. What is it that you want and seek, but that God 
may be all in all in you ? But how can this be, unless all 
creaturely good and evil, become as nothing in yon, and 
toVu ? 

" Oh anima mea, abslrahe te ab omnibus. Q,)ud tibi 
cmn mutabitibus creaturis 1 Solum iponmm tuam, qui 
omnium est author creaturarum, expectans, hoc age, nt 
cortuumilie liberum et expeJitum semper invenial, quo- 
ties illi ad ipsum venire placuerit." That is, O my soul ! 
withdraw thyself from all things. What bast thou to 
do with changeable creatures? Waiting and expecting 
Ihy bridegroom, who Is the anthorof ail creature!!, let 
it be thy only care, that he may find thy heart tree 
and disengaged, as often as it shall pleasoi him to visit 
thee. 

I thank you for your kind offer about the manuscript 
in the sale, but have no curiosity that way. i have had 
aO that 1 can have from books, i leave the rest to God. 
1 have formerly given away manj of the lives of good 



D51,z=.JnQOOglC 



SZ*i . SOME ACCOUNT, IM. 

ArmeUe, so can have do dislike to your doing the sane. 
I bare often wi^ed for eome, or lereral little things of 
that kind, thoDg'b more according to my nund ; by whicb 
ttke meaneet capacitieH migbt, in an easy manner, be led 
into the heart and spirit of religion. 

Dear Han, adieiv 