# Chapter 

Concerning the Nature and Extent of Christian Devotio

Devotion is neither private nor public prayer; but prayers, whether pmate or public, are particular parta or instances of devotion. Devotion ligitifies a life giren or devoted to God.

He therefore is the devout man, who lives do longei to bis own will, or the wiiy and apirit of the world, but to the sole will of God, who considers God in everv thing, who serves God in every thing, who nutkes all , the parts of his common life, parts of piety, by doing erery thing in the name of Got!, luid under such rules » ire conformable to his glory.

We readily acknowledge, that God alone is to be the mie and measure of our prayers, that in them we are to loot wholly unto him, and act wholly for him, that we are only to pray in such a manner, for such things, and iuch ends as are suitable to his glory.

Now let any one but iind out the reason why he is to be thus strictly pious in his prayers, and he will find the same as strong a reason to be as strictly pious in all the other paifs of bis life. For there is not the least shadow of a reason, why we should make God the rule and measure otjijir prayers, why we should then look wholly '^■|B,bim?Smd pray according' to his will ; but what



2« A 9ER10U3 CALL TO A

equallj proves it necessary for us to look wholly nnW God, and make him the rule and measure of ^1 the »ther actions of our life. For any ways of life, any em- ployment of our talents, whether of our parts, onr time or money, that is not strictly according to the will of God, that is not for such ends as are suitable to his glory, are as great absurdities and failings, as prayers that are not according to the will of God. For there is qo other reason, why our prayers should be according to the will of God, why they should have nothing in them, but what is wise, and ho!y, and heavenly, there is no other reason for this, but that our lives may be of the same na- ture, full of the same wisdom, holiness and heavenly tempers, that we may live unto God in the same' spinl that we pray unto him. Were it not our strict duty to Uve by reason, to devote all the actions of our lives to God, were it not absolutely necessary to walk before him ID wisdom and holiness and all heavenly conversatioD, doing every thing in his name, and for his gloiy, there would be no excellency or wisdom in the most heavenly prayers. Nay, such prayers would be absurdities, they would be like prayers for wings, when it was no part of our duty to Bj.

As sure therefore as there is any wisdom in praying for the spirit of God, so sure is it, that we are to make that Spirit the rule of all onr actions ; as snre as it is our duty to look wholly unto God in our prayers, so sure is it, that it is our duty to live wholly unto God in our Sves. But we can no more he said to live unto God, unless we live unto him in aifthe ordinary actions of our life, unless b^ be the rule and measure of all our ways, than we cau be said lo pray unto God, unless our prayers look wholly unto him. So that unreasonable and ab- ■urd ways of Ufe, whether in labour or diversion, wheth- er they consume our time or our money, are like unrea- sonable and absurd prayers, and are as truly an offence onto God.

It is for want of knowing,~or at least considerii^ this, that we see such a mixture of ridicule in the lives ofmany people. You see them strict as to some times and places of de'Votion ; but when the service of the church is over, they are but Uke those that seldom or sever cgo»



DEVtSOT AStD HOLT UFE. tt

itiere. la their way of life, their maDoer of ipendiop their time aad taoaej, ia their cares and fean, iQ their pleasures and initulgeaces, io their labour aDd diTenions tbey are tike therest of the world. Tliis makea the loose ' part of the world generally make a jest of those that are devout, becatise they see their derotioa goes do ferther tbaa their prayers, and that when they are overy they U?e no more unto God, till the time of prayer retoms again ; but Uve by the same hgmonr and fancy, and in as ManeDjoyiBentofaU the ibllies of Ufc, as other people. This is the reason why they are the jest and scorn of careless and worldly people ; not because they are really ' derot^d to God, but because they appear to hare no otb- ei devotion, but thatofoccasiwial prayen.

Julius is very fearful of missing prayers ; all the parish Buppodes Julius to be sick, if he is not at church. But if yoa was to ask him why he spends the rest of his time hy boinour or chance 1 why he is. a companion of the ailUest people in their most ully pleasures ? why is he ready for every impertinent entertainment and diverrion 1 If you was to ask him why there is no amusement too trifluig to please him ? why he is busy at alf Stalls and assemblies I why he gives himself up to an idle gossiping ctmveraation 1 why he Uves in foolish friendships and fondness for particular persons, that neither want nor deserve any particular kindness? why he allows him- self in foolish hatreds and resentment) against par1ici> lu persons, without considering that he is to love every body as himself i If you ask him why he never puts hu coaversation, his time, and fortune under the rules (tf religion, JuUus has no more to say for himself, than the most disorderly person. For the whole tenor of Scrip- ture lies as directly against such a life, as .against de- bauchery and intemperance : He that hves in such a course of idleness and folly, lives no more according to the religion of Jesus Christ, than he that lives in gluttony and intemperance.

If a man was to tell Julius" that there was no occasion for so much constancy at prayers, and that he might, without any harm to himself, neglect the service of the church, as the generabty of people do, Julius wonld think such a one to be no Cbristiitn, aiul that be ougb* 3* ■



30 i. SERIOUS CALL TO k

to aroid his compwy. Bat if a person only tetla him . that he may live as the generality of the worid doea. that se may eajoy himself as others do ; - that he may spend his time and mooey as people of fashion do, that he may conforna to the follies and frailties of the generality, and gratify his tempera and passions aa most people do, Julius nevev suspece that man to want a Chmtian B[Hrit, Or that be is doing the devil's work. ,

And yet if Jalius was (o read all the Nevf Testament from the beginning to the end, he would fkid his coime of life condemned in every page of it.

And indeed there cannot a^y thing be imagined more absurd in itself, than wise and sublime, and heavenly^

f)rayers added to a life of ranify and folly, where neither abour nor diversions, neither time nor money, are under the direction of the wisdom and heavenly tempers of oar prayers. If we were to see a man pretending to act wholly with regard .to Ood in every thing that he did, that would neither spend time nor money, or take any labour or diversion, but ao far as he could act' according to strict principles of reason and piety, andyetat-tfae same time neglect all prayer, whether public or private, should we not be amazed at such a man, and wonder bow ha could have so much folly along with so much religion T

Yet this is as reasonable as for any person to pretend 4o strictness in devotion, to be careful of observing times and places of prayer, and yet letting the rest of his life, fail time and labour, bie talents and money be (Ksposed of, without any regard to strict rules of piety and devo- tion, for it is as great an absurdity to soppose holy pray- ers, and divine petitions, without an holiness of life suita- ble to them, as to auppose ao holy and divine life without prayers.

Let any one therefore think, how easily he could coo- tate a mas that pretended a great strictness of life with- •ut prayer, and the same arguments will as plainly con- fute another, that preteni^ to strictness of prayer, without canying the same strictness into every othec ' part of life. For to be weak and foolish in spen^ng our time and fortwie is no greater a mistake, than to be weak a»d fonksk » r«lati«a to 9»r prayers. And to



ItEVOtri! AND HOLT UFE. 3t

riloir onraelves in any wajrs of life that neither are nor can lie offered to Qpi, is the same irreligion as to neglect oar prayers, or use them in soch a manner, as make# tbem aa offering unworthy of God.

The thort of the nmtte'r it this, either reason and re- Kgioa prescritie rules and ends to all the ordinary actiou of oar hfe, or they do oot : If they do, then it is as De- cenary to govera all our actions hy those rales, as it is necessary to worship God. ' For if religion teaches as any tiuog coocerniDg eating and drinking, or spending OVF tiine and money, if it teaches us how we are to use and contemn the world ; if it tells us what tempers we are to have in common life, how we are to be disposed towards all people. How we are to behave towards the Kick, tbe poor, the old and destitute ; if it tells us whom ne are to treat with a particular love, whom we are to regard with a particular esteem: if it tells ns how wft are to treat our enemies, and how we are to mortify and deny ourselves, he may be very weak, that can think the^e parts of religion are not to be observed with aa Bwch exactness, as any doctrine that relates to prayers.

It is very observable, that there is not one command ID all the gospel for public worship ; and perhaps it is a ■ duly that is least insisted upon in scripture of any other. The frequent attendance at it is never so much as men- tioned in all the New Testament. Whereas that religion Or devotion, which is to govern the ordinary actions of our life, is to be found in almost every verse of scripture, Oor blessed Saviour and his apostles are wholly taken op in doctrines that relate to common life. They call OS to renounce the world, and differ in every temper and way of life, from the spirit and way of the world. To renounce all its goods, to fear none of its evils, to reject its joys, and have no value for its happiness. ' To be as new bom babes, that are bom into a new state of things, to live as pilgrims in spiritual watching, in holy fenr, and heavenly aspiring after another life. To take up our daily cross, to deny ourselves, to profess the blessednes* of mourning, to seek tbe blessedness of poverty of spirit. To forsake the pride and vanity of riches, to take no thought for tbe morrow, to live in the profoundeet state of humility, to rejoice in worldly sufferings. To reject



aa A SERIOUS call to a

the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life;* to bear injuries, to forgive aod bless ourenemiea,'' 'And to love mankind as God loveth them. Ta giv.e up our whole hearts and afiectioos to G«d, aod strive to eater through the straight gate into a life of eternal glory.

This is the commoD devotion which our blessed Sa- viour taught, in order to make it t)ie common life of all Christians. Is it not therefore exceeding strange, that people should place so much piety in tlie attendance of puhUc worship, concerning which there is not one pre- cept of our Lord's to he found, and yet neglect these- common duties of our ordinary life, which are command- ed in every page of. the gospel ? .1 call these duties the devotion of our common life, because if they are to be practised, they must be made parts of our common life, they can have no place any where else.

If contempt of the world, and heavenly affection, is a necessary temper of Christians, it is necessary that this temper appear in the nhole course of their lives, in their manner of usii^ the world, because it can have no place any where else.

If self-denial be a condition of salvation, j^l^t- that would be saved must make it a part of theif Ofdinfiry hfe. If humility be a Christian duty, then, the.cOmmoa life of a Christian is to be .a constant course of humility in all its kiqds. If poverty of spirit be necessary, it must be the spirit and temper of every day' of our bves. If we are to relieve the naked, the sick, and the prisoner, it must be ihc common charity of our lives, as far as we can render ourselves able to perform it. If we are to love our enemies, we must make our common Ufe a visible ex- ercise and demonstration of that love. If content and thankfulness,'if the patient bearing of evil be duties to God, they are the duties of every day, and in every cir- cumstance of our life. If we are to be wise and holy as the new-bom sons of God, we can no otherwise be so^ but by renouncing every thing that is foolish and vain ta every partof our common life. If we are to be in Christ new crealure?, we must shew that we are so, by having new ways of living in the wori(l^ If we are to follow



mGooglc



DEVOUTf AND HOLY LtFE . " 3g

Christ, it must be in our commoa way of spending; ever;

Thus it is in all the virtaes and holy tempen of Chrit- tiaiuQr, they are not ours, uoless they be the virtues and lempeis of Our ordinary life. So that Christiani^ is ho far nam leaving as to live in the common ways of life, conforming to the folly of customs, and gratifying the passions and tempeTs which the spirit of the world de- lights in, it 19 so far from indulging ns in any of these diiQji, that all its virtues which it makes necessary to jalration, are only so m-.iny ways of living above, and contrary to the worlil in all the common actions of our fife. If our common hfe is not a common course of hu- mility, self-denial, renunciation of the world, poverty of Bpirit,' and heavenly affection, we do not live tiie lives of Christians.

But yet though it is thus plain, that this and this alone is Chmtiiinity, an uniform, open, and visible practice of sJ! these virtaes ; yet it is as plain, that there is little or nothing of this to be found, even amongst the better sort of people. You 'see them often at church, and pleased with line preachers ; but look into their lives, and'yon see them iust'the same sort of people as others are, that make no pretences to devotion. The difierence that yo» find betwixt theoi. Is only the difierence of their natural tempers. They have the same taste of the world, the same worldly cares, and fears, and joys; they have the same turn of mind, equally vain in their desires. You see the same fondness for state and equipage, the same pride and vanity of dress, the same self-love and indul- gence, the same foolish friendships and groundless ha- treds, the same levity of mind and trifling spirit, the same fondness of diversions, the same idle dispositions and vain ways of spending their tirite in visiting and conver- sation, as the rest of 3ie world, that make no pretences to devotion.

1 do not mean tfafs comparison betwixt people seem- ingly good and professed rakes, but betwixt people of sober Wtes. Let us take an instance in two modest wo- men: let it he supposed, that one of them is careful of times* of devotion, and observes them through a sense of duty, and that the other has «o hearij concera about ity



Si A SERIOUS CALL T* A

fent is at church Mldetn or (Aea, juat tu it happein^-f Now it is a very easy thing to see this difierence betwixt -'these persons. But when you have seen this^ can yon find any farther ditference betwixt them? Can you find that their common life is of a dtfiereut Jdndl Are not the tempers, and customa, and manners of the oiie, of the same kind as of the other? Do they live as if they belonged to different worlds, had different views in that beads, and different rules and measures of all their ac- tions ? Have they not the same goods and evils, are they not pleased and displeased in the same manner, and for the same things? Do they not Uve in the same course of life 1 Daeg one seem to be of this world, looking at the things that are temporal, and the other to be of another world, looking wholly at the things that are eternal ?-~ Does the one live in pleasure, delighting herself in show or dress, and the other live in selt-denial and mortifica- tion, renouncing every thing that lo<diB like vanity either of person, dress, or carriage ? Does the one follow pub- lic diversions, and trifle away her time in idle visits and corrupt conversation ; and does the trther slndy all the arts of improving her time, living in prayer and watch* ing, and such good works as may make all her time turn to her advantage, and be placed to her account at the last day? Is the one careless of expense, and glad to be able

to adorn herself with every costly ornament of* dress 7

and does the other consider her fortune as a talent given her by God, Which is to be improved religiflusiy, and no more to be spent in vain and needless omameots, than it is to be buried in the earth t

Where must you look to find one person of religion differing in this manner, from another that has none ? — And yet, if they do not differ in these things, which are here related, can it with any sense be said, the one is a good Christian and the other not t

Take another instance amongst the men. Leo has a great deal of good nature, has kept what they call good company, hates every thing that is false and base ; Is ve- ry generous and brave to his friends, but has concerned himself so little with religion, that heiiardly knows the difference betwizt a Jew and a Christian.

Eusebius, on the other hand, has had early imprcsaioDs



EBVOOT AStt HOLT LITE %

af pe^itin, and bays bodu of deToUoa. lie eUi *al| i «f all the teaata and fasts of the church, aad knom die nanesofmost men that hava been eminent for pie^.— Too aerer bear him fwear or make a Joote jest ; and when he t^Ju of rehg^on, he talkftof it, m ofa matter of flke last coDcein.

Here yoa see that one peraon has religion enoogb, according to the w^ of the World, to be recktmed a pt oiH Christian, wd the other is so far from all appearaacfl pf religion, that he may fairly be reckoned a Heathen) and yet if yoa look into dieir common hfe, if you esaa^ it>e their chief and roling ten^>eFs in the greatest articles ■ oflife, or the ereatwl doctrines of Christianily, you mil find the least ditn:[«n(-« imaginable.

Consider them with regard to the use t^ the world, be- caose there is what every body can see.

Now to have right notions add tempera with relation to this worid, is as eiaenlial to rcLigioo, as ta have right uotioDS of God. And it is as possible for a man to wor- diip a crocodile, and yet be a pious man, as to have his auctions set upiM this world, and yet be a good Chris- tiao.

But now, if you consider Leo and Eusebius in this rd- ■pect, you nill find .them exactly alike, seeking, using, sttd enjoyii^; all that can be got in this world, in the ■ame manner and for the same ends. You will find that riches, prosperity, pleasures, indulgences, state, equip- ^e, and faouMir are just as much the happiness of Euse- Woe as they Ce of Leo. And yet if Christianity has not changed a man's mind and temper with relation to these dungs, what can we say that it has done for him ?

For if the doctrines of Christianity were practised, Oiey wonld Hiake a nan as different from other people as to all worldly tempers, sensual pleasures, and the pride of life, as a wise man is different from s natural ; 'it would be as easy a thing to know a Christian by his out- ward course of life, as it is now difficult to find any body that Ures it For it is notorious that Christians are now not only tike other men in their frailties and infirmi- ties, this might be in some degree excusable ; but the complaint is, they are like heathens in all the main and Gtyef articleg of |beir lires. They enjoy the irof Id, w4



36 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Jire every day in lie same tempere, mm) the same designs, 'Bod the same indulgencei, as 'they did who knew not God, nor of any happiness in aoother life. Every body, that is capable of any reSection, mast hftTe observed, that this is generally <the state even of devout people, whether men or wom«i. You may see them different ftoiD other people so far as to times and places o( prayer, but generally like the rest of the world in all the other parts of their lives. That is, adding Chri^an devotion to an heathen hfe : 1 have the authority of our blessed Saviour for this remark, where he says, Take no thought, toying what shalt we «U, or 'what thall we ' drink., or wher^ TDitkUthaiiwebe clothed? for after all these things do the Gtntitee *eek. But if to be thus aflecMd even with the neceBsary things of this |ife, shews that we are not yet of a Christian spirit, bat are like tb« heathens ; surely to enjoy the vani^ and fblly of the world aslbey did, to be like them in the main chief tempers of our lives,- in selA love end indu^nce, in sensual pleasures and diversions, in (he vani^ of dress, (he love of show and greatness, or any o(her gaudy distinction of fortune, is a much greater sign of a heathen temper. And consequently they who ' add devotion to such a life, must be said to pray as Christians, but Uve as heatbeus.



>n Inquiry into the Reaaon, why ttie generalilj of Chrirtiana fa]) ■o far s^rt of the Holineu and Devotion of Chritlianilj.

IT may now be reasonably inquired, how it comes to pass, that the lives even of the better sort of people are thus strangely contrary to the prinoiples of Christianity.

But before I give a direet answer to this, I desire it may also be inquired, how it comes to pasa Ihat swearing is bO common a vice amongst Christians; it is indeed not yet ao common amongst women, afi it is amongt^



nn-OTT AND HOE^ire ST

men. But among:»( men this ein is ib common, thnt jierhaps there are morp than two in three that are grfBty otit through the nhole coiir^ of their lives, swearing more or Jess, just as it happcRS|jpme constantly, others raly now and then, as it were bechance. Now I ask bow comes it that two in three of the oien are gruilly of ro gross ant) profane a sin as this^ 'I'here is neither ig- norance nor human inlifmily to plead for it : It is against ID express coniraandment, and the most plain ilocthne of mr blessed Savionr.

■ Do but now tjnd the reason why the generality of men Ii»e in this notorious vice, and then you will have found the reaeon why the generality even of the better sort of peofle live so contrarj' to Chnstinoily. . Now tlie reason of common swearing is ihis : If is be- ■Mose men have not so much as the intention to please God in all their actions. For let i man biit have so iDOch piety as -to intend to -please God in all the actionit of Hislife, as the happiest and. best thing in the world, MM^then be will nev^r swear more. It will be ns im|>os- tilile fof him to swear, whilst he feels this intention niltiin himself, as it is impossible for. a man that in- tends to please his prince, to go up and abuse him to hia

-It seems but a small and neces^rj part of piety to bare such a sincere intention as this; and that hf has BO reason to look upon himself as a disc'ple of Clirist, Hho is not tlhis far adfancod in piety- And yet it is purely for waiit of this degree of pioiy, that you see such « mixture of sin and folly in the lives cren of the better sortof people. It is. for want of this intention tliatyna Ke men that profess religion, yet liTe in swearing and MDSoality ; that you see clergymen given to pride and tovetousness, and worldly enjoyments. It is for want of this intention, that you see women that profese de- . ffotion, yet living in all the folly and vanity of dress. Wasting their time in idleness and pleasure, and in all luch instances of state and equipage as their estates will reach. For let but a woman feel her heart full of thia blention, aaS she will find it as impossible to patch or paint, as to curse or swear i she will no more desire to .Aine at balls and assemblies, or make a figure amongst



at , A SQtlOtS CALL TO A

. *»^ those that are most Goely dressed, than she will desire t9 daiifce upon a rope to please spectators: She will know that the ooe is as fur from the wisdom and excellency of tiie Christian spint, as|Uie other.

It was this general Veotion that made the primitiTe Christians such enuoeDt instances of piety, that made (he goodly fellowship of i he saints, and all the g;lorious army ol martyrs and confessors. And if you wilf here ■top and ask yourself why you are not as pious as the primitive Christians were, your own heart will tell yoa that it is neither through ignorance nor inability, but purely because you never thoroughly intended it' You observe the same Sunday- worship that they did ; and yoq are strict in it, because it is your full intention to be ■o. And when you as fully intend to be hke them in theTr ordinary common life, when you intend to please God m all your actions, you will find it as possible as lo be strictly esact in the service of the church. And wh^n you have this intention to please God in all' your BCt.ons, as the happiest and (test things in the world, ^on will find m yon as great an aversion to every thing that is vMin and impertinent in common life, whether ol' busi- ness or pleasure, as you now have to any thing that i» profane. You will be as tearful of hving in any foolish way, either of spending your t.me or your fortune, as yyu are now fearful of neglecting the public wor- ship.

Now who that wants this general sincere intention, can be reckoned a Christian? And yet if it was amongst Christians, it would change the whole face of- tiie world; true piety and exemplary holiness would be ai common and visible as buying and selUi^, or any trade in life.

Let a clei^man be but thus pious, and he will coo- Terse w if he bad been brought up by an apostle ; he will no more think and talk of noble preferment, than of noble eating or a glorious chanot He will no more complain of the frowns of the world, or a small cure, or the want of a patron, than he will complain jof the want of a laced coat, or a running horse. Let him hut intend to please God in ail bis actions, as the happiest and best lyiig in the world, and then he will know that tbsre it



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE 3*

nothing noble in a ctergyaisn, but barning zeal kr the talvatioD of Boub; nor any thing poor in his profeAn, Init idleness and a worldly spirit.

Agmn, lei a tradesman bare this intration, and it will make bim a saii^ in bis shop ; his erery daj bueinen Rill be a course of wise and reasonable actions, mad* holy to God, by beii^ done to obedience to bis will and pleasure. He will bny and sell, and labour and Iravet*, because by sodoing he can do some good lo himself aod others. But then, as. nothing can please God butwhitt ia wise, aod reasonable, and holy, so he will neither buy, nor sell, aor labour in any otiier manner, nor to any other end, but s«ch aa may be shewn to be wise and rei^ sonable and holy. He will therefore consider not what arts, or methods, or application, will soonest make tuiB richer and greater than his brethren, or remove him from a shop to a life of state and pleasure ; bat be will coosit^ er what arte, what methods, what application can make worldly bosioess most acceptehle to God, and make « life of trade a Ule of holiness, derotlon, and piety. Thia will be the temper and spirit of every tradesman ; he cannot stop short of these degrees of piety, whenever it is his intention to please God in all bia actions, as the best and happiest thing in the worid.

And on the other hand, whoever is not of thia spirit and temper in his tmde and profes«on, and does not carry it on only so far as is best subservient to a wise and holy and heavenly life ; it is certain that be has not this intention; and yet without it, who can be shewn to be ft follower of Jesus Christ ?

Again, let the gentleman of birth and fortune but have Ihis intention, and yon will see how it will carry h m from every appearance of evil, to every instance of piety and goodness.

He cannot live by chance, or as humour and fancy ■ carries him, because he knows that nothing can please God but a wise and regular course of life. He cannot live in idleness and indulgence; in sports end ganging, in pleasures and intemperance, in vain expenses and high living ? because these things cannot be turned into means of piety and holiness, or made so many parts of a wise and rebgiouB life.



40 A SERIOWS CALL To A

As he thas removes from »U appearance of evil, so fas h^fens aail aspires after every instance of goodness. — He does not ask what is atloivable and pardoaablc, but what is commendabte and praise-worthy. He does Dot ask whether God will forgive the folly of our lives, the madoess of our pleasures, the vanity of our expenses-, the richness of our equipage, and the Citreless Gonsomp- tion of our time ; but he asks n-h^ther God is pleased with these things, or whether these nre>th€ appointed ways of gHioii^ his favour, {ie does aot ioquire whether it be pardonable to board up mosey to adorn ourselves with diamonds, and g^ild oar chariots, whilst the widow and the orphan, the sicli and the prisoner want to be relieved ; but he nsks whether God has re- . quired these things at our hands, trhether we shall bc- oailed to account at the last day for the negleotof them, because it is not his intent to live in such ways as, for aught we know, God may perhaps pardon ; but to be <liligeat io such ways, as we know that God wilt infallibly leward.

He will not therefore look at the lives of Christians, to learn how he ought to speud his estate; but he wiM look into the Scriptures, and make every' doc tiine, para- ble, precept, or instruction that relates to rich men, a law to himself in the use of his estate.

He will have nothing to do with costly apparel, because the rich man in the Gospel was clothed with purple and fine linen. He denies himself the pleasures and indul- gences which his estate could procure, because our bless- ed Saviour saitb. Wo unto you that t^re rich, /or yt havt rtceivtd your eonaotalion. Ho will have but one rule for' charity, and that will be, to spend all that he can that way; because the judge ofquick and dead hath said, that all is so given, is given to him. .

He pill have no hospitable table for the rich and weal- thy to come and feast with him in good eating and drink- ing: because our blessed Lord saith, Whea thoU taakest a dinner, call not thy friend), nor thy brethren, neither thy kiTumea, nor thy rich neighbour), lest they alio bid thee agai^, and a recompense be made thee. AU when thou mah- ett a featt, call the poor, the maimed, the hme, the bUnd, and thou ahatt bt bletttd. For they eannat rccontpout thee,



OeroUT AND HOLT LIFE. tt

fyr thou tftalt he recompttutd at ih* rtturrtctiim of «** wif Lake xiv. 12, 13, 14. W^

He will naste no mone; in gilded rooUr or costl; fiir< nitnre : He will not be carried from pleasure to pleasnra ■ in eipensive state and eqnipag^e, because an inspired apostle bath said, that all that ia in tbe world, tbe lust of the flesb, tbe lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is aot of the Father, bat is of the world.

Let not any one look apoo this as an ima^nary de- Knptton of charity, that looks fine in' the notion, but cannot be put in practice. For it is so far front beii^ ID im;i-^inarj, impracticable form of life, that it has been practised by great numbers of Christians in former ages, who were glad to turn their whole estates into a constant coulee of charity. And it is so far from being impossi- ble now, that if we can find any Christians, that sin- cerely intend to please God in ^1 their actions as the best aod happiest tljjng in tbe world, whether they be yoong or old, single or marriei, men or women, if they have but this intention, it will be impossible for them to do , otherwise. This one principle will infalUbly carry them to this height of charity, and they will find themselvet unable to stop short of it

For bow is it possible for a man that intends to pleas« God in the use of his money, and intends it because he j%e9 it to be his greatest happiness, how is it possible , for sucn a one in such a slate of mind, to bury his money 4n needless impertinent finery, in covering hin>- •elfor bis horses with gold, whilst there are any works of piety and chari^ to be done with it, or any ways of ifiending it well ?

This is as strictly impossible as for a man that intend* to please God ia his words, to go into company on pui^ pow to swear and Re. For as all waste and unreasona- ble expense is dtme designedly and with deliberation, so no one can be guilty of it, whose constant intention is to please God in the use of his money.

1 have chose to explain this matter by appealing to

this intention, because it makes the c!»se so plain, and

■k because every one that has a mind, may see it in the

" ^learest light, and feel it in the strongest manner, only

by looking into his own heart. For it is as easy for

4*



43 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

•rery persoD to know, whether he inteads to please God inttl his actiona, as I'or ^ay eeirnnt to know whether this be bis intention towanja bis master. Every one also eau as easily tell how he lays out his money, and wheth- er he considers bow to please God in it, as he can tell where la* estate is, and whethpr it be in money or land. So that here is no plea tele lor ignorance or frailty, as to this matter, every body is In the light, and every body has power. And no one can lall, but he Ihat is not so m4ch a Christian as to intend to please God in the use of his estate.

You see two persons, one is re^lar in public and pri- Tate prayer, the otjier is pot. Now the reason of Ihis diSerence is not this, that one has strength and power to observe prayer, and the other baa not; but the rea- son is this, that one intends to please God in the duties of devotion, and the other has no intention about it. — Ifow the case is the same in the .right or wrong use of out time and money. You ^pe one person throwing away hia time in steep and idleness, in visiting and di- versions, and his money in the most vain and ucreoaon- «ble expenses. Y'ou see another careful of every day\ dividing his hours by rules of reasAn and religion, and spendii^ all his money in works of charity ; now the difference is not owing to this, that one has strength and power to do thus, and the other has not ; but it is •wing to this, that one intends to please God in the right use of all his time and all his money, and -the other has BO intention about it.

Here therefore let us (udge ourselres sincerely, let u» not vainly content ourselves with the common disorders of our lives, the vanity of our expenses, the folly of our diversions, the pride of our habits, the idleness of our lives, and the wasting of our time, fancying that these are such imperfeclions as we fall into through the una- voidable weakne<« and frailty of our natures ; but let us be assured, that these disorders of our common life are owing to this, that we have not so much Christianity as to intend to pteaft God in all the actions of our life, as t^ best and happiest thing in the world. So that we Jtt must not look upon ourselves in a state of common and ^| pardouablo imperfection, but in such a state as wants the ;



DBiVoUT AND HOLT Lira. a

lift ^d most fundameatal principte of christiamty, vie. an inteQtiOD to pkase God in all our xction?. %

And if aay one wEkS to ask hinueir, bow it comes to pass thai there are any degrees of sobriety whidi heneg' JecU, aay practice lOf trumility which he wants, any methods of charity which he does not follow, any rules of redeeming time which he does not observe, lus own heart will telfhim, that it is because he never intended to be 50 exact in those duties. For whenever we fully intead it, it is as possible to conform to all Oub re^lari- ty of life, as it is postibte for a man to observe tioMs of prayer.

■ 3o that the fairit Aaea not lie here, that we desire to be good aad perfect, but through the weakness of our Datore fall short of it; but it is because we have not piety enoogh to intcod to be as good sa we can, or to please God in ail the actions of our life. This we sea B plainly the case of tfim that spends his time in sports, nben he ahould be at church ; it is not his want of pow- er, but hia want of intention ordesire to be ihere.

And the case is plainly the same in every other folly of human life. She that spends her time and mooey in the imreasonaUe nays and fnshions of the world, does not do so, because she wants power to be wise and re- ligious ia the management of her time and mouey ; but because she has do intention or desire of being so. When she feels this intention, ^e wilt Srtd it as possible to act <ip to it, 03 to be strictly sober and chaste, because it i» ber care and dew re to be so.

This doctrine does not suppose that we have no need •f divine grace, or that it is in our, own powijr to make ourselves perfect. It only supposes that through the ■vant of a sincere intention of pleasing God in all our actions, we fall in I o such irregularities of life, as by (he ordinary means of grace we should have power t9 avoid. ' And that we havo not that perfection, which our pres- ent state of grace makes us capable of, because we do not so much as intend to have it.

>It only teaches ua that the reason why you see no real mortification or self-denial, no eminent charity, no pro- found huHUlily, no heavenly affection} no true contemgA



44 A SERIOUS CAU, TO I

of the worid, no Chmtiui meekneM, do sincere zeal, tut enftent piet; in the commiw lives of Chr.sLans, is this, because they do not so much as intend to be exact md 6x«iBptai7 in these virtiies.



Of the great danger aod FoUj of not intending to be u erainenl and eiemplurj aa we can, in ibe pr&clice o! all Chriiliaii Virtue*. ' •

ALTHOUGH the goodness of God, and bis rich mercies in Christ Jesus are a sufficient assurance to . US, that he will be inercifttl to onr nnsToldahle weak- nesses and intinnities, that is, to soch failing as are the effects of ignorance orsiHprise: yet we have no reason to expect the same mercy towards those sins which we hare lived in, throus^b a want of intention to avoid them .

For instance, tbe case of a common swearer, who die« in that guilt, seems to have no title to tbe divine mercj ; for this reason, because be caa'no more plead any weak- ness or infirmity in his excuse, than the man thai hiil hia talent in the earth, could plead his want of strength to keep it oiit' of the earth.

But now, if this be right reasoniojf, the case of a com- mon swearer, that his sin i» not to be reckoned a par- donable frailty, because be has no weakness lb plead io its excuse ; why then do we not carry this way of rea* soning to itii true extent? Why don't we as much con- demn every one other error of hfe that has no more weakness to plead in its excuse than common ^nearin^.

For if ibis be so bad a thing, because it might be avoid- ed, if we did but sincerely m tend it, must not then atl other erroneous ways of life be very guilty, if we hve in them, not through weakness and inability, but because we never sincerely inlend to avoid them ?

For instance, vou'periiaps have made no prr-gress in tbe most important Chhsdan viHues, you have scarce



iBEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. «

gone half way in bntnility and chanty; non \( jeur failure in Ibese duties i» purely owitig to yotjr want ot iDtenticiD «f pertbnnjng tbem in any true degree, have you not then as little to plead ler youreelli and ttre yoti Dot as much without all excuse as the conuno^ »w«arert

Why, therefore don't you press these things faonrt iqton your ceBScieoce? Why do you not think it as dait- ^rous for yoQ to live in sueh defects as are in yovc power to amend, as it is dangerous for a common sweai^ cr to live in the breach of that duty, which it is in hit power to observe T Is not negligence and a wiint of a Mcere iateatifln as blameabte in one case as-in another 1 Yon, it mny be, are as fnr from Christian pcrfecliotir as th^ common swearer is from keeping the third Com- maadment i are you not therefore as much condemned by the doctrines <>f the Gospel, as the swearer is b^tbe Intrd contniandment? '

Tou perhaps will say, that all people fall short of the perfection of the Gsspel, and therefore you are content with your'feilings. But this is saying nothing to th« porpose. For the question is not whether Gospel per- fection, can be fully attained ; but whether you come as near it as a sincere intention, and careful diligence can carry you. Whether you are not m fl much lower stat« than you might be, if you sincerely intended and care=- fully laboured to advance yotirself in all Christian vir- tues.

If you are as forward in the Christian life as your best eodeavoure can make you, then you may justly hope that your imperfections will not be laid to your charge ; fcnt if your'dcfecls in piely, humihty, and charity, are owing to your negligence and want of sincere attention to be as eminent as you can in these virtues, then you leave yourself as much without excuse as he tlial lives in the sin of swearing, throu^ the want of a sincere in. lentios to depart from it. "■ The salvation of our soul»is set forth in Scripture as

»a thing of difficulty, that requires ad our diligence, that is lo be worktd oat with fear and trembling. - We are told, that itrait m tht gatt and twmwi ii lft« •Bj, Aat kodak wito life, and/ew tktn 4c (frot^urf *fi



4*8 A SERIOUS GALL TO A ' t

That many are calhd bvtfew are ehoten. And that mnay nil) niias of their Balvatton, who seem (o hare taken some pains to obtain it As in these words, Strivt to aUer irt at tht itrait gate, for many, / jaif unio you, will ttek to Mter in, and »kaU not be able.

Here our blessed Lord commands ns to strive to enter in ; because man; will fail, who only seek to enter. By which we are plainly taught, that religion is a state of labour and striving, and that many will fail of their sal- ratjon ; not because they took no care or pains about it, but because they did not take pains and care enough ; they only soug^ht, but did not strive to enter in.

Every Christian, therefore, should as wdl examine hit life by these doctrmes, as by the commnndments. For these doctrines are as plain marks of our condition, as the commandments are plain marks of our duty.

9f if salvation is only given to those who strive for it, then it is as reasonable forme to consider whether my course of life he a course of striving to obtain it, as to consider whether I am keeping any of the command- ments.

If my religion is only a formal compliance with those modes of worship that are in fashion where I hve ; if it cost ma no pains or trouble, if it lays me under no rules and restramts, if 1 have no careful thoughts and sober riedeGtions about it, is it not grpat weakness to think that I am itr'iTiwg to enter in at the itrait gate ?

If I am seeking every thing that can delight my senses and regale my appelitcs; Spending my time and for- tune in pleasures, m diversions, and worldly enjoyments, a stringer to wntch,ng4, fastings, priiycrs, and morti- fications, how can it be said thit I am working out mj taivatioJi with fear and traniling? '

If there is nothing in my life and conversation that shew me to be different from the Jpws andHeaihena; ifl u5e> the world and worldly enjoyment", as the gen- • er.ility ol people now do, and in all ages have done, why should I think that 1 nm amongst those few, who are walking in the narrow way to heaven ?

And yet if the way is narrow, if none can walk in it J but those that strive, is it not as necessary for me to coniider Tfhether the way I am in be narrow enough^.



DEVOUT AND HOLT UTE. «

or the labor 1 take be a sufficient strivinK, as to conaiiJer whether I sufficiently observe the* second or Ibird coro- mandineiit.

The Bum of this matter is tbia : From the above-men- tiooed, aod many other passages of Scripture, it seems plain, that oar salvation depends upon the sincerity and perfection of our endeavors to obtain it.

Weak and imperfect men shall, notwithstanding their frailties and defects, be received, as having; pleased God, if they have done their utmost to please him.

The rewards of cfaaniy, piety, and humility, will be ^veo to (hose wbose lives have been a careful labour to exercise these virtues in as high a degree as thej eould.

We cannot offer to God the service of angels ; we cannot obey him as man in a state of perfection conld (/ bal &llen men can do their best, and this is the tf^^% Hon that is required of us; it is only the perfecn^nf oar best endeavors, a careful labour to be as perfect as

But if we stop short of this, for aught we know, we (top short of the mercy of God, and leave ourselves nothing to plead from the terms of the Gospel. For God has th<>Te made do promises of mercy to the sloth- ful and negligent. His mercy is only offered to our frail and imperfect, bat best endeavours to practice all man- ner of righteousness.

As the law to angels is angelical ri!:hteou8ness, as the law to perfect Iwings is sirict perfection, so the Ian to eur imperfect nature is the best obedience that our frail Datare is able to perform.

The measure of our love to God stems in justice to be the measure of our love of every virtue. We are to love uid practice it with all our heart, with all our soul, n:th alt our mind, and WLtb all our strength. And whpn W'' cease to live with Ibis regard to virtue, we hve below our nature, and instead of being able to plead our iofiim- ities, we stand chargeable with negligence.

It is for this reason that we are exhorted to work out

, ODF salvation with fear and trembhng; because unless

«or heart and passions are eas ' '

of our salvation; unless holy i



U A SERIOUS CALL TO

ours, and Ice ep our conscienceB strict and tender about erery pari ef our duty, constantly examining how ne live, and bon fit we are to die, we ahull in all probabil- ity fall into a stale of negligence, and sit down in such a course of life as will never carry us to the rewards of heaven. , . ,

And he that considers that a juet God cao only make iuch allowances as are auitnble to his justice, that our" works are all to be examined by fire, will &m1 -that fear and trembling are proper tempers for those -that are ^raiving near so great a trial.

And mdeed there is no probability that any one'sbonld

. do all the duty that ia_ expected from him, or make that prepress in piety which the holiness and justice of God requires of him, iiut he that is cooetantly afraid of fall- Hieshort of it

W^Hmv this is not intended to posseK p«opIe's minds witffii scrupulous aniiety, and discontent in ihe service ofQod, but to fiU them with a just fear of Uvinjtn sloth ' and idleness, and in the neglect of such virtues as tbejr will want at the day of judgment.

It is to excite them to an earnest examination of their lives, to such zeal, and care, and concern after Christian perfectioB, as they use in any matter that has gained their heart and affections. I Jt is only desiring them to he so apprehensive of their

' atate, so hdmble in Ihe opinion of theraselvt.9,' so earnest afler high degrees of piety, and so fearful of falling short of happiness, as the great apostle St. Paul was, when he thus wrote to the PhilipiJIans.

" Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect — but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and teaching forth jmlo those things which are before, 1 press toward the mark for the. prize of tbe high calling of God in Chiist Jesus." And .Iben he adds, " Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, ■be. thus minded."

But now, if the apostle thought it necessary for those, ^ho were in his state of perfection, to be thus minded ; that is, thus labouring, pressing and aspiring after some .degrees of holiness, to which they were not then arrvvcd; .tfurely it is much more aecessar/ for us, who are bora



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. a

in the dregs of time, and labouring uoder great imp«r- iectiona, to be thus minded; thai ia, thus eanieit and itriring after such degrees of a holy and diiiue life, as we have not yet attained. . .

The best way for any one to know how much be oi^ht to aspire after holiness, ie to consider not how much will make his present life easy, but to ask km- Klf hon much he thinks will make him easy at the boui of death.

Now any man that dares be so serious aa^to put this question to himself, will be forced lo "answer that at deaths «Tery one will wish that he had been as perfect as hqpian nature can be- ta not Ibis therefore sufficient to put ns not only upon wishing, but labouring after nil that perfection which we «ball then lament the want of ? Is it not ezcessire iolly to be content with such a course of piety when we shall JO want it as to have Dothing else to comfort us'? — How can we carry a severer condemnation against our- selves, than to believe that at the hour of death we shall want the virtues of the saints, and wish that we had beeo amoi^t the first servants of God, and yet take dA methods of arriving at their height of pie^, whilst we are alive ?

Though this ia an absurdity that we can easily pass overat present, whilst the health of our bodies, the pas- sions of our minds, the noise, and hurry, and pleasures, and business of the world, lead os on with eyes thai see Dotgand ears that hear not; yet at death, it will set it- Klf before us in a dreadful magnitude, it will haunt us like a dismal ghost, and our conscience will never let ua take our eyes from it.

We see in worldly matters, what a torment seir.«on^ demnatioa is ; and how hardly a man is able to foigive himself, when he hfis brought himself into any calamity or disgrace, purely by his own folly. The afiliction is made doubly tormenting, because he is forced to chaise it all upon himself, as his own act and deed, against the , nature and reason of things, and contrary to the advice of ill his friends.

Now- by'this we may in some degree guess how ter- rible the pain of that self-condemnation will be, when



^ A -MailOUS CALL TO A

a man shall find himeelf in tbe miBerics of death, -undef the severity of * seltcondemnii^ conscience ; charing all bii distress upoa his own folly and madness, against tbe sense and reason of his «wn mind, gainst all the doctrines aad precepts of reUgion, and contrary to all the iBslnictioas, calls and >ran>ings both of God and man.

PaiUeiu was a busy notable tradesman, and very proa- perous in his deaUngis ; but died in the thirj:y-fiflh year of his age.

A little before his death, when the doctors had givea him over, some of his neighbours came one evening to see him ; at which time, he spake thus to them :

" J see, says he, my friends, the lender concern yoa •ha^e for me, by the grief that appears in your coun- tenances, and I know the thoughts thai you now have abi^t me. You think how melancholy a case it is to see so young a man, and in such Nourishing business, delivered up to death. And perhaps, had 1 visited any of you in my coDditi<m, 1 should have had tbB same thoughts of you.

But now, my friends, my tiiot^ts are no more like yonr thoughts, dian my condition is like yours.

It is no trouble to me now to think that I am to die youDg, or before I have raised an estate.

These things ar« now sunk into such mere nathingt, , that 1 have no name little eoough lo call tbeai by. lor if in a few days, ^r hours, i em to leave this carcass to be buried in the earth, and to find myself eilherforever happy ID the favour of God, or eternally separated frrm all light and peace, can any words sufficiently express the littleness of everj thing else ?

Is there any dream like the dream of life, which amuses us^vitb the neglect and disregard of these things f Is Uiere any folly like tbe folly of our manly state, nhich is too wise and b,usy to be at leisure lor these re- flections ?

WhcD we consider death as a misery, we cmly think of it as a miserable separation from the enjoymeots of thi^ life. We seldom mourn over an old man that diep rich; but we l^ent the young, that are taken away in - tbe progress «f their foriune. You yourselves look upon



MVODT AND HOLY, LIFE. ^t

ne with pity, not tiiat I tun goin^- unprepared to meet the Judge of quick and dead; but that I nm to leave a. prosperous trade in the flower of my life.

This is the wisdom of our manjy thoughts. And yet what folly oCtKe silUeat children is ao great as (his?

For what is thare miserable or dreadful in death, but the consequences of it? When a man is dead, what does any thing signify to him, but the state be is then in? .

Our poor friend Ltpidta died; you know, as he was dressing himself for a feast ; do you think it is now part of his trouble that be did not live till that entertainment was over? Feasts, and business, and pleasures, and en- joyments, seem great things to us, whilst we think of nothing else ; but as soon as we add death to thcoi, they ajl sink into an equal littleness ; and the soul that is sep- arated from the body, no more laments the loss of busi- ness than the losing of a feast.

If I am going into the joys of God, could there be any reason to grieve, that this happened to me before I was forty years of age 1 Could it be a sad thing to go to heaven before 1 had made a few more bargains, or stood a little longer behind a counter?

And if I am to go amongst lost spirits, could there bo any reason to be content, that this did not happen to me till I was old and fulLof ricbes ?

If good angels were ready to receive my toul, could it be any grief to me, that i wiis dying upon a poor bed in a garret 7

And if God has delivered me up to evil spirits, to be dragged by them to places of tormenls, could it be any comfort to me, that they found me upon a bed of state ?

When you are as near- death as I am, you will know (hat all the diflTerent states of life, whether of youth or age, riches or poverty, greatness or meanness, signify no more to you, than whether you die in a poor or stately apartment.

The greatness of those things which follow death, makes alt that goes before it sink into nothing.

Now that judgmeht is the nest thing that I took, for, and everlasting happiness or misery ia come so neap me, all the enjoymeats and prosperities of life seetp



» ^ A SEHIOUS CALL Td A

ea Taio tmd iosignificant, nod to hare no mere to do witfi tay happiness, thaa tbe clothes that I wore before t •oil Id speak.

But, my friends, how am 1 sorppsed that I have nor always hitd these thoughts? For what is there in the ter- rors of death, in the vanities of life, or the necessities of piety, but what I might have m easily and fiilly seen in any part of my Hfe ?

What R Strang thing is it, that a little health, or the poor bu^esa of a ehop, ehonld keep us so. senseless' of these great things that al-e comiog so fast upou ns I

Just as yon came into my chamber, 1 was thinkin|> with myself, what numt>er8 of souls there are now in the worid in my condition at tbis Wry lime, surprised with a summons to the other world : some taken from their shops and farms, others from their sports and pleas- ores, these at suits at law, those at gaining tables, some •n the road, others at their own fire-aides, aod all seized at an honr when they thought nothing of it ; frighted at the approach of death, confounded at the vanity of all their labours, designs, and projects, astonished at tha folly of their past lives, and not knowing which way to turn their thoughts, to find any comfort. ' Their con- . sciences Bying in their faces, bringing all their sins to their remembrance, tormenting them with deepest con- victions of their own folly, presenting them with the sight of the angry Judge, the worm that never dies, tha lire that is never quenched, the gates of hell, the powers of darkness, and the bitter pains of eternal death.

Oh my friends ! bless God that you are not of this number, that you have time and strength to employ your^, selves in' snch works of piety as may bring you peace at the last.

And take this along with you, that there is nothing hut a life of great piety, or a death of great stupidity, that can keep ofi" these apprehensimis.

Had [ now a thousand worlds, 1 would give them all for one year more, that 1 might present unto' God one year of such devotion and good works, as I never before so much as intended.

You, perhap?, when you consider that 1 have lived fre.e . irom scandal and debauchery, and in the coromunion of



tfEVOVT AKD HOLT LIFE. 69

iie church, wonder to see me so fbll of remont and lel^ODdemtlntion at the approach of death.

But alas ! what a poor thiaj^ is it to hare lived only fnt from murder, theft aod adultery, which is all that I can lay of nq-self.

Yon know indeed, that I have never heen reckoned a Mt, but you are at the ssme time witnesses, and have been frequent companions of my iotemperauce, sensuality, ■od great indolence.

Aod if I am now ^ing to a jadgment, where noth- ing will be rewarded but good works, I may well be concerned, that thoi^h I am no sot, yet I bare no Cbris- tian lobriefy to plead for me.

It is true, I hare Rved in the eonimnnion of the cbnrch,. and generally frequented its worship an<t service on Sun* days, when 1 was neither too idle, or not otherwise dis- posed of by my business and pleasures.. But then, ray coaforniity to the public worship has been rather a thing ol course, than any real intention of doing that, which flte service of the church supposes ; had it not been so, , I had been oftener at church, more devont when there, and more fenriul of ever neglecting it.

But the thing that now surprises me above all wmt- depB, 19 this, that I never had so much as a general intention of living up to the piety of the gospel. This never so much. as entered into my bead- or my heart. I never Mice in n^ life considered whetli9 I was liv- ing as the laws of religion direct, or whether my way* of life was such as would procure me the raercy of God at this hour.

And can it be thought that I have kept the gtMpel terms of salvation, nithoig ever so much as intending in any serious and delitlCTate manner either to know &em or keep themT Can it be thought that I have pleased God with sach a life as he requires, though I have lived without ever considtring what he requires, or how much I have performed'? How easy a thing wou!d i" salvation be,, if it could fall into my careless hands, who bad never had eo many serious tlionghts about it, as ■hont any one common bargain that 1 have made ?

In the business of life I have used prudence and re- tection, I Wve done every tfati^ by rulei and metbodft.



S4 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

1 have becD glad to conTcrse with men of eiperieoee and judgment, to find out the reasona why some fail and others succeed in any businew. 1 have taken no step in trade but with great care and caution, consider- ing every advant^e or danger that attended it, I h»re always had my eye upon the main end of business, and have studied all the ways and me^ins of being a gainer by all that 1 undertook.

But what is the reason that 1 have bronght pone of these tempers to religion? What- is the reason ttat I, who have so often talked of the necessity of rules and methods, and diligence in worldly buuoess, have all tbia while never once thought of any rules, or methods, or • managements, to carry me on in a liie of piety 1

Do'you think any thing can astonish and coofoimd a -dying man Uke this 1 What pain do you think a man ' must feel, when his conscience lays all this iolly to hia charge, when it shall shew him how regular, exact, and wise he has been in small matters, that are passed away like g, dream, and how stupid and senseless he has lived, without any reSectioB, withoul any rules, in things of^ such eternal moment, as no heart can sufficiently .cotK , teive them I

Had I on^' my fratltiea and imperfections to lameol at this time, I should lie here humbly trusting in th« mercies of God. But alag ! how can I call a general ' disregard, Aid a thorough neglect of all religious im- provement, a frailty and imperfection, when it was aa much in my power to have been exact, and careful, and diligent in a course of pietf, as in the husiness of my trade,

I could have called in as mw>y helps, have practised as' many rules, and been taught W many certain methods of holy living, as of thriving in my shop^ had 1 but so iotend- - ed and desired it.

Oh ! my friends I a «arelesa life, nnconcemed and

j|h inattentive to the duties of religion, is so without all

^ > excuse, so unworthy of the mercy of God, such a shame

to the'sensg and reason of our tainds, that 1 can hardly

conceive a greater punishment, than for a man to be

thrown into the state that 1 am in, to reflect upon it"

, , PtHitau wis be[e goii^ i^, but had his mouth stog- .



VEVOVT AND HOLT LITE: 6*

foi by a ctmTnUioD, which sever suffered him to speak any more. He la; coambed about twelve honn, and then gave op the ghost

Ifow.if every reader would ima^oe thi« Penitetu (• have bwD some farticalar acquidntaace or relation of his, and fimc; that he aaw^ and heard all that is here de- tcribed, that be stood bj his bed«ide when his poor- triend lay in«uch distress and agony, lamenting the folly of'bis past life, it would in all probability teaeh him snch wisdom as never entered into his heart before. If to this, he shoald consider, how often ^e himself might have been nrprised ioithe same st^te of negligence, and made aa .example to the rest of the world, tUs double reflection, botii upon the disU^ss of his friend, and the goodness of that God, who bad preayved him from it, woold in all likelihood soften his heart into holy tempera, and make him turn the remainder of his Ufe into a regular coarse of piety. '

This, therefore being so nsefhl a meditation, I shall here leave the reader, as I hope, seriously engaged in ih



We can plta«e God in no atate or employmBnt of Life, bnt by iit- ttndiTig and dtveting it all to his Honour and Glorj.

HAVING in the firat chapter stated the gen* era] nature of devotion, and shewn, that it impliea no< any form of prayer, but a certain form »f life that is of' iered to God, not at any ^particular times or places, bnt every where and m every thii^j I shall now descend to some particulars, and shew how we are to devote oar kbour and employment, our time and fortones unto God.

As a good ChrisUan should consider every place aa holy, because" God is there, so he should look upon CTeiy part of his life as a matter of boUness, because it is to be offered vmto God. i

The profewion of a clergyman is a holy protes8io%



it A SERIOUS CALL TO A,

bccaoM it ift a ministratioa in boly thii^s, an attem^Boe St the altar. But vrorldlf boNiieM is to b« mad« hMy imtt) the Lord, by heiog done as a service to bim, tod in oonftHmity to hia divine will.

For as all men and all things in the wwU, as trnly be- loi^ unto God, M any places, tlni^s, or persons that are devoted to divine servic* ; so all thii^ are to be used, ■nd all persons are to act in their several states and em- ptoymeota for the glory of God.

Hen of worldly business therefore m«st aot look upon themselves as at liberty to live to tbemtelves, to sacrifice to their own humours and tempers, because ttwir emp)«;- ment is of a worldly nalore. But they must consider,^ that as the world and all worldly professions, as truly beloi^ to God, as persfms and things that are devoted to ' thti altar ; so it is as much the duty of mcD in worldly business to Uve wholly tmlo God, as it is the duty of those who are devoted to divine service.

As the whole world is God's, so the whole world is to ■ act for God. As all men have the same relation to ,Ood,' - as all men have all their powers aod faculties from God, ^. so all men are obliged to act for God with all their powen and faculties.

As all things are God's, so all things are to be used and regarded as the things of God. For men to abuse '• things on earth, and live (o themselves, is the wne rebel- Hpn against God, as for angeis to abuse things in heavett ; because Qod is just tbe same Lord of all on earth, as'he is the Lord of all in heaven.

Things may, and must differ in their use, but yet they are all ti^e used according to the will of God. .

Men ^y, and must differ in their employments, hot yet Ihey must all act for the JIame ends, as dutiful ser- Tants of God, in the i^bt and pious performance of their several callings.

Cleigymea mnst Uve wholly unto God in one particti- lar way, that is, in the exercise of holy offices, in the ministration of prayers and sacraments, and a zealous dis- tribution of spiritual goodup

But men of other apgployments are in their particular ways as mucH obliged to !ict ai the ser-vanls of God, and live wholly onto him in their several calliE^.



DEVOUT AND HOLT UPE. jV

This is the onfy difference betweeo Clci^tymen, aotf people of other callings.

When it caa be shewn that men might be vain, cot«> tons, sensual, worldly-minded, or proud in the exercise of their frorUIJ' bnmness, then it will be- allowable for ckwymen to indulge the same tempers ia their sacred profession. For though thes^ teBf^rs are raost odlootf and most criminal in clei^yTne% who besides their bnp' tiama! tow, have a second time devoted tbemselTes to God, t<* be hfa servants, not in the common offices of bnman life, bnl in the spiritual service of the most holr MCied things, and who are therefore to keep ftemselves aa separate and 'different from the common life of other' men, a« a chotch or an altar is to be kept separate from" hoiisea ami tebfep of common uk — Yef as all CHristjan* »re by their Uflfcm devoted to God, and made profes- wre of holhtSpo are they all in their several callings to live as hoiyaikd heavenly persons ; doing every thing- in their common life only in such a manner, as il may be received by God, as a service done to him. For things ^apiritnal and tempoml, sacred and common, mdit like men and angels^ like heaven and earth, all c<»uipire in the glory of God.

Aa there is hot one God and Father of nt all, whose glory gives light and life to every thing that hves ; whoee presence Alls all places, whose power supports all beings, • whose providence ruletb all events; so every thing that Hves, whether in heaven or earth, whether they be thrones or principalities, men or angels, they must all mth one spirit, live wholly to the praise and glory of this one God and Father of them all. Angels as angels in their heavenly mintstratiom, but men as men, women as women, bishops as bisbi^s,' priests as priests, and deacons aa deacons ; some with things spiritual, and some with things temporal, offering to God the daily sacriiice of a re.tsonable life, wise actions, parity of heart, and heaven- ly affections.

This is the common business of all persons in this world. It ia not left to any women in the world to trifle away their time iiT the follies and impertinences of a fashionable life, nor to any men to resign themselves up to worldly qires aDdcaacems; it is not left to the ricb



Sfl A SERfOUS CAtL TO A

to g^tify Aeir paaeions id the indulg^ences and pri<le of life ; nor to the poor to vex and tormeDt their hearts with the poverty of their state ; hut men and women, rich and poor, must wiih bishops and prieato, walk be- fore God in the same wise and holy spirit, iiMllie same denial of all wtin tempera, and in the same msciplme and care of their soul»; not only because they have all the same rational nature, ajid are servBnts of the -same €>ad, but because they aTl want the same holiness to make them tit for the same happiness, to which tbey are called*. It is therefore absolutely necessary for all ChretiaM, whether men women, to consider themselves as per- sons that are devoted to holiness; and so order tbeir common ways of life by such rules of reason and piety, as may turn it-lnto contmual service unto Almighty God. JJ,

Now to make our labour or empIoyfllDt an accept&- We service unto God, we must carry it on with the same spint and temper, that is required in g^vin^ of alms, or

any work of piety. For, if whethtr we l.Cor.x.31. eat or drink, or whalsoever we do, we tnuit^

da ail to tht glory of Ood ,- If we are to uie this world at if we UKd it not ; if we are to preaent

our bodie* a Gming laerifiee, holy, acceptable Rom.xii. 7. to God; if ni« are to live by faith, aiid net

by tight, and to have our eonveraation tn heaven ; then it is necessary, that the common way of wir life in every aUte, be made to jflorify God by aiich tempers as make our prayers and adorations acceptable to him. For, if we are worldly or earthly-minded in onr employments, if tbey are cEirried on wilh vwn de- sir'es, and covetous tempers, only to satisfy ourselves, we can no more be, said to live to the glory of God, than glnt- tons and drunkards can be- said to eat and drink to the glo- ry of God.

As the glory of God is one and the same thing, so . whatever we do suitable to it, must be done with one Mid the same spirit. That same state and temper of mind which make our alms and devotions acceptable, must also make our labour, or employment, a proper of- fering unto God. If a man labours to be rich, and pur- sues bis btuinees, that he may raise himseK to a state ol



DEVOUT AND HOLV UTK. ■A

6gnn and glory in the world, be is no longer Mnii^ God in his emptojmenl ; he is acting uader other m»^ ters, and htia no more title to a reward from God, than he that gives alms, that he may be seen, or prays that he maybe beardACmeD. For vaja and earthly desires mrc BO more allowable in oar eqiploymeots, than in our alms and devotions. For these tempers of worldly pride and vain glory, are not only evil, when (bey mix wilb OUT good works, but they luive the some evil na- ture, and make us odioia to God, when they enter into the common business of our employment If it were allowable to indulge covetous or vain passions in oi^ worldly employments, it would then be allowable to l>e rain^lorious in our devotions. But as our -alms and devotions-are not an acceptable service, but when they proceed from a heart truly devoted to God, so our conv mon employment cannot be reckoned a service to turn, but w\xea ills performed with the same temper and piety of faeart

Ho»t of the employments of life are in their own nar tnre lawful; and all those that are eo, may be made ■ 'substantial part ,of our duty to God, if we engage in them only so far, and for such ends, as are suitable 1« beii^, that are to Uve above the world, all the time that they live in the world. This is the only measure of onr application to any worldly business, let it be nhnt it will, where it will, it must have no more of our hands, our hearts, or our time, than is consistent with an hearty^ daily, careful preparation of ourselves for another ht'e.— For as all Christians, as such, have renounced this world, to prepare themselves by daily devotion and universal holioess, for an eternal jstate of quite another nature, they must look upon worldly employments, as upon worldly wants and bodily infirtnities ; things not to be desired, but only to be endured and suffered, till death and the ressurrection has carried us to an eternal state of real happiness.

Now he that doesnot look at the things of this like in tliis degree of littleness, cannot be said either to feel or believe the greatest truths of Christianity. For if he thinks any thing great or important in human busineiSj ctn he be said, to feet or believe those Scriptures vrhicfy



4t A SERIOUS CALL TO A

represent this life, and the g^eateet tlunga of life, sfl liubbles, vapours, dreams, and shadows 1 '

If he thinks tigure, and sben, and norldly gloi^, to be any proper buppmess of a Christian, how can be be «aid to leel or believe this doctrine ? Bktffd are yt vhen flMtt shall hate you, and when they ihaU t^xirate yoa/rom Aeir company, and thall reproaek you, ami east out your name ai nil for ike ton of inan'i take. For surelj', if ^erc was any real happiness in figare, and shew, and worldly glory ; if these thioga deserved, our thoughts and care, it could not be matter of the highest joy, when we arc torn from them by persecutions and auflerings. — If, therefore, a man wilt so live, as to shew, that he feels and believes the most fuadanii.'Dla) doctrioee of ChriS' tianily, he must live above tho, n-orld ; this is the temper that must enable him to do the business of life, and yet hve wholly unto God, and to go through some worldly employment with a heavenly mind. And it Is as neces- sary, thxt people Uve in their employmenls with this temper, as it is necessary tbal their employment itself b« lawful.

The husbandman that tilleth the ground is employed ' in an honest business, that is necessary in life, and very capable of being made an acceptable service unto God. But if be laboure and toils, not to serve any reasonable .ends of life, but in order to have his plough made of sil* vcr and to have his horses harnessed in gold, the honesty of his employment is lost as to bim, md bis labour be> comes hia folly.

A tradesman may justly think that it is agreeable to the will of God, for bim to sell such things as are inno- cent pnd useful in life ; such as help both himself and others to a reasonable support, and enable them to assist those that want to be assisted. But if instead of tbi^ be trades only with regard to bimselt^ without any other rule than that of bis own temper, if it be his chief ead in it to grow rich, that he may live in figure and induU gencies, and be able to retire from business to idleness «nd luxury, his trade, as to him, loses all its innocency, And b so far from being an acceptable service to God, that it is only a more plausible C"urse of covetousness, ^(^-loTe, and ambition. For such » one tunu tbtf 1



I n Google



DEVOUT AHB HOLT Lire. (A

■eces^es of employments into pride and coTetousness, just as the sot and epicure tnra the oeceBsities of eatit^ Bod driabiiig into glutton; and drunkenness. How he -dtat ta up early and late, that sweats and-labours for these ^kda, that hemay be -some time or other rich, and live in pleasure and indulgence, lives no more to the gloiy of God, than he that plays and games for the same ends. .Fortfaongh there is ag^reat d^erence between trading and gaming, jet most of that difference is lost, when nen ooce. trade with the same desires and tempera, and for the same ends (hat others game. Charity and fine dressing are things very diSerest ; but if men give alms for the same reasons that others dress fine, only to be seen and admired, charity is then but Ij^ the vanity of fine clothes. In like manner, if the same motives make •ome peQple painlul and industrious in their trades, nfaicb make^ others constant at gaming, such pains are but like the pains of gaming.

Calidns has traded above thirty years in the greatest city of the kingdom; he has been so many years con- ttantly increasing his trade and,hia fortune. Every hour of the day is wilb him^n hour of business,' and though be eats and drinks very heartily, yet every nfeal seems to be in a hurry, and he would say grace if he had time. Catidus ends e?ery d<ty at the tavern, but has not leisure to be there till near nine o'clock. He is always forced to drink a good hearty glass, to drive thoughts of busU nesB out of his head, and make his spirits drowsy enough for sleep. He does business all the time that be is rising, and has settled several matters before he can get to hii compting-room. His prayers are a short ejaculatioD or two, which he never misses in stormy tempestuous weath~ er, because be has iilways something or other at sea. Cnlidus will tell you with great pleasure, that he has been in this hurry for so many years, and that it mu^t have killed him long ago, but that it baa been a rule with him, to get out of the town every Saturday, and make the Sunday a day of quiet and good refreshment in the country.

He is now so rich that he would leave off his business, 'Mtd amuse his old age with building and furnishing a •gbe house id the countrv, but that he is afraid he should



A 8131:1006 CALL TO A

grow melaocholy if he was to quit bis bustnew. H« will tell you with great gravily, that it is a daDgcrons thing Tor a man that has beeo uaed to get money, ever to leave it oft If tbougblsof religion happen at any time to steal into his bead, Calidits conteut; himself witfa thinking that be never was a friend to heretics and in- fidels,, that he has always been civil to the minister of bis parish, and yery often given something to .the cbarity- schools.

Novr this way of life is at such a distance from all the

doctrine and discipline of ChriatiaDitj,' that no one cas

Hve in it through ignorance or frailty. Calidns can ne

more imagine, that he it bom again of

St Joboiii. . (fte tpirit ; that he ia in CJiriat a new

1 Pet. ii. 11. creafure ; that he lives here ai a sfrattr Coloss. iii. 1. ger and pilgrim, aetiitig kit afftftian*

iHtott thingt abafot, end laying up trtas- vrts in heaven. He can no more imagine this, tnan h« oan think that he has been nil bis life an apostle, working' miracles and preaching the gospel.

It must also be owned that the geneifility of trading peor ple, especially in great towns, ere too much like Calidua, You see them all (he week buried in business, unable to think of any thing else; and then spending the Sunday in idleness and refreshment, in wandering into the coun> try, in such visits and jovial meetings, as make it often the worst day of the week.

Now Uiey do Dot Uve thus, becnuse they cannot sup- port themselves with less care and application to business ; but they live thus because ihey want to grow riclnn their trades, and to maintain their families in nome such Gg- ure and degree of finery, as a reasonable christian life had no occasion for. Take away but Ibis temper, and then people of all tnides, will find themselves at leisure to live every day like Christians, to be careful of every duty of the Gospel,,. t« live in a visible course of religion, and be every day strict observers both of private and pub- , lie prayer.

How the only way to do this, is for people to consider their trade, as something that they are obliged to devote to the glory of God, something that they are to do only in locb a iuaiuier, ai tkat they may make it a duty to



devwt and hoht lite. m

iim. Nolhing can be right in bu^ness, that is not on-

der these rules. The apostle conaKttide

servants to be obedient to tkeir nvuteTt in Ephes. Vi. 5.

nagknas of heart tu unto Chritt. JVot wUh Col. iii. S3,

tyt-urviee as wwa-pieaaert, but- as the ter- S3.

mittj of CKrwt, doing the will tif God from

tht heart. With good will doing lervitx at unto the Lord,

aaditotvnto -men,

Ttkis passage sufficiently shews; that aU Christiatiftar? to live wholly unto God in every state and condition, doing the work of their conuoon callbg in such a maimer, and lor sucl^eaJa, as [o nirike it !t part of tlieir ilevotion or service to God. For certainly if poor slaves are not to comply with their busineas as men pleasers, if they we to look wholly unfo God in all their nctions, and serve insingrenese of hearl, as unto the tord, mirely men of other employment and conditions must be as DMich obli- ged to go through their business with the same singleness ofheart; not as pleasing the vanity of their onn minds,. *>t as gratifying tlieir own selfish, worjdiy passions, but M the sefviuita of God in all that they have to do. For sorelj no one witt say that a slave is to devote his 8tat& of life unto God, and make the ivill of God the sole rule ud sod of his service, but that a tradesman need not act with the same spirit of devotion in his business. For this is as absnrtl, as to make it necessary for one man to be. more just or Qiilhful than another.

It is therefore absolutely certain, that no Christian is ft eater any further into business, nor for anv other ends, than such as he can in singleness of heart offer unto God, as a reasonable- service. For the son of God has redeem- ed 119 for this mily end, that tve should by a life of reason 3nd piety, live to the glory of God; this is the only role snd measure for every order and state of life. Without 'his rule, the most lawful en^toyment becomes a sinful Mate of life.

Take away this from the life of a clei^man, and his iioly profession serves only to expose him to a greater danjnution. Take away this from tradesmen, and shopft' are but so many houses of grw^ess and filihy lucre. — Take away this from gcnlleuifflf and the course of theij life becomes a coune of sensuality, pride and ffuitod-



,.Slc



m A SHBIOUS CALL TO A

ness. Take away this rsle from our tables, and all falls into gluttony antl^lninkenDess. Take away, this measure trom our dresa and habJH, aqd all is turned into sucb paint, and glitter, and ridjculoua ornaments, as are a real )hame to the wearer. Take^away this from the use of our fortunes, and you will find people apariog in notbiQ^ but charity. Take away^this from oar dlrersions, and-' you will tiad DO sports too silly, nor any eotertainments loo vain and corrupt to be the pleasure of Christiana.

If therefore we desire to live unto God, it is necessary to bringr our whole life under this law, to make las glory the sole rule and measure of our acting in evfry employ- ment of life. For there is no other true devotion, but this of living devoted to God in the common business of our lives.

So that men mus^ot content themsetves with the law- fulness of their employments, but must consider whether they use them as they are to use every ColloBs. iii. I. thing, as strangers amj pilgrims, that are iPet.i. 15, bapUzed into the ressurrection of JesDS IG, Chriat, that »e to follow bim Ai a wise

Epb.T. S6, 2*7. aud heavenly course ef life, m the morti- * ficalioQ of all worldly desires, and in puri-

fying and preparing their souls foi the blessed enjoyment of God. ^ For to be vain, or proud, or covetous, or ambitious in the common course of our business, is as contrary to these holy tempers of C^risttanity, as cheating and dis- honesty.

If a glutton was to say in excuse of his gluttony, that be only eats such things as it is lawful to eat, he would make as good an excuse for himself as the greedy, cSve- tous, ambitious tradesman, that should say, he only deals in lawful business. For as a Christian is not only re- quired to be honest, but to be of a Christian spirit, and make bis life an exercise of humjli^, repentance and heavenly affection, so all tempers that are contrary lo these, are as contrary to Christianity, as cheating is cop^ trary lo honesty*

So that the matter |>^My comes to this ; nii irregular- tempers in trdde and bulroess, are but like irregular ten^ pen in eating and drinking^ ^•i . ,



Mtout and holt life. h

Pi-oud viewa and yain desires in our worldly employ. mi?Dts, arc as tnilj' rices andcomiptJona, a9hy|ioccisy in prayer, or vaoity in alma. . Aod there can be no reason given wKy vanity in our alms should make us odious tft God, bnt what will prove any other kind of pride to be equally odious. He that labours and toils in a calling, that he makes a figure in the world, and draws the eyes of people upon the sptendoar of his condition is as far from the pious humility of a Christian, as he (hat gives alms that he may be seen of men. For the reason why pride, and vaTtfty id our prayers and alms renders them an un- acceptable service to God, is not because there is any thing particular in prayer and alms that cannot allow of pride, but because pride is in no respect, nor in any thing made for man : it destroys the piety of our prayers and alms, because it destroys the piety of every thing that it touches, and renders every action that it goveme, inca- pable of being ofFereid unto God.

So that if we CQuld so divide ourselves, as to be hum- ble in Rome respects, and proud in others, such humility would be of no service to us, because God requires us at truly to be humble in ail our actions and designs, as to be true and honest in all our actions and designs.

And as a man is not honest and true, because he is so to,a great many people, or upon several occasions, hut because truth and honesty is the measure of all his deal- ings with every body ; so the case is the same in humility, or any other temper, it must be the general ruling habit ofourmin'^s and extend itself to all our actions aod de- signs, before it can be imputed to us.

We indeed sometimes talk, as if a mtm might be hum- ble in some things and proud in others, humble in his dress, hut proud of his learning, humble in his person, hat proud in hi^ views and designs. But though this may pass in commoo discourse, where few things are said ac- cording to strict truth, it cannot be allowed when we ex- amine into the natui^ of our actions^

It i^ very possible Ib^a man ihaWves by cheating, tp be very punctual in paying- for wliat fie Jbuys; but then every one is assuced, that he does not do so out of any frmclple of true, honesty.

In like nnfiner yA very possible far a man that i»

■ If i



« A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Eoud of his estate, ambitions in bis viem,orvaia ofliis irning, to d.sregard hia dress, and person^ in such a. m<nnor as a truly bumble man would do; 4iut to sup- pose ^hat he does so out of a true principle of religious hiim'l-.t;, is full as absurd as to suppose Ibat a cheat pays for what he buys, out of a principle of religious boucsty.

As therefore all kinds of diahonesty destroy our pre-' fences to an honest priocipJe of mind, so all kiada of . pride destroy our pretences to an bumble spirit.

No one wonders that those, prayers and alms, which proceed from pride and oslentalion are odious lO God ,' Out yet it is as ^asy to shew, that pride is as pardonable there, as any where else.

If we could suppose that God rejects pride in our prayen and alms, bat bears with pride in our dress, our persons, or estates, it would be the same thing as to sup- pose that God condemns falsehood in some actions, but allows it ID others. For pride in one thing differs from pride in another thing, as the robbing of one man difleis irom the robbing of another..

Again, if pride and ostentation is so- odious that it destroys the merit and worth of the most reasonable ac- tions, surely it must be equally odious in those actions, which are only founded in the weakness and infirmity of our nature. Aa tbus, alms are commanded by God, aa excelli^nt in themselves, as true instances of divine tem- per, but clothes are only allowed to cover our sha^e ; surely therefore it must at least be as odious a, degree of prde, to be vain in our clothes, as to be vain in our

Again, we are commanded to pray without ceasing, ns a means of'rendering our souls more exalted and divine, but we are forbidden to lay up treasures upon esrtb ; and 4an we think that it Is not as bad to he vain of those treasures which we are forbidden to lay up, as to be vain of^t^one praters which we are commanded t» miike. 0f

Women are re<|tiired to have their heads covered, and to adorn Iherflaeivcs with sbamefacedneas ; -if therefore

1 Cor li 13 *'**'■'' ^"■'^ '*'" '" *-^°^^ """^ '"^^'^^ ^"^ ' cspressly fofbiddc^^ if tfaey patch aa^t



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. n

^int that part, which can onlj be a-

dome^ bj sharaefiicedness, snrely they l.Tiin,ii. 9;

bave as much to repent of for such %

pride as tbey have, whose pride ia the motiTe to their

prayers and charity. Thu mnst be granted, unless we

nil! say, that it is more pardonable to glory in our shame,

than to glory in our virtue.

All theae iostances are only lo shew us the great neces- sity of such a regular anil uniform piety, aa extends itself to all the actions of our common life.

That we must eat and drink, and dress and discourae, according lo the sobriety of the Christian spirit, engage in no emplovments but such as we can truly devote uiito God, nor pursue them any farther than so far as conduces to the reasonable ends of a holy devout life.

That we must be honest, not only on particular occa- sions, and in such ioatances as are applauded in the world, easy to be performed and free from dangpr or loss, but from'such a living principle of justice, as makes us love truth and integrity m alf its instances, follow it throng all dangers, aTfd against all opposition ; as knowing that the more we pay for any truth, the better is our bai^ain, and that then our integrity becomes a peafl, when we have parted with all to keep it.

That we must be humble, not only in such instances as are expected in the world, or suitable to our tempers, or coniined to partitnilar occasions, but in such a humil- ity of apirit, as renders u^ meek and lowly in the whole course of our lives, as shews itself in our dress our per* Kons, our conveisaljon, our enjoyment of the wortd, the tranquility of our minds, patience under injuries, submis- sion to superiors, and condescen»ons to (hose that are be- low us, and inall ihe outward actions olom b>es.

That we must devote not only times and places to prayer, but be every where in the spirit of devotion, with hearts always set towards heaven, looking up to God in all oitr actions, and doing every thing as his servants, living in the world as in,a holy temple of God, and always worshipping him, though not with our lips, yet with the thanlcfulness of our hearts, the holiness of (W- qctions, ant the pious and charitable use of all his gm&. Thai we m'jst not only send up petitions and



Sf i. SERIODS CALL TO A

thoughts now and thea to hearen, but m*«t go thriragk «tl onr worldly boeinese with ao heavenly »pfi^, as mem—, bers of Christ'* mystical body, that with D«w^arts, and jMw minds, are to turn en earthly life into a prepara- tion for a hfe of greatness and glory in the kingdom of beavei).

Now the only way to arriva at tins pie^ of spirit, is to bring all jowr actions to the same rnle as your de- votions and alms. You very well know what it M^iat mahes the piety of your alnu or devotionsi ; now the tame rules, the aame regard to Qod, must render every thing else that you do, a tit and acceptable service onto God.

Ekiough, I hope, has been said to shew you the neces- sity of thus introducing religion into alt the actions of yoor common life, and of living and acting with the same regard to God in all that yoij do, as in ywur prayers and alms.

Eating is one of the lowest actions of MiT lives, it ia <ommon to us with mere animals, yet we see that tbe^ piety of all ages of the world, has turned this qrdioarj action of an animal life, into a piety to Ood,' by making every meal to liegin and end with devotion.

We see yet some remains of this custom in most Christ tiao,familiesi some such little formality as shetvs you that people used to call upon God at the beginning and end of their meitls. But, indeed, it is now generally so per- formed, as to look more like a mockery on devotion, Ihaa any solemn application of the mind unto God. In one house you may perhaps see the head of the family just pulling off his hat, in another half getting up from his seat ; another shall, it may be, proceed so far. aa to make as if he said something ; but however, these little at- tempts are the remains of some devotion that was fonn- erly used at such times, and are proofs that rehgion has belonged to this part of cornmon life.

But to such a pass are we now come, that thoi^h the custom is yet preserved, yet we can hardly bear with him that seems to perform it with any degree of serious- ness, and look upoo it as a sign of fanatical temper, if a man h»s not done it as soon .iS he begins. ^

1 would not be thought to plead for the ■eeesaity kf



pSt^Oirr AND HOLT UE^ 6f

Ibcg prayers aftheae timei ; but thus much I think may Be said, tdj^if prayer is proper at these times, we ongfat to oblige^JPselrea to use such a form of words its ^ould shew tlwt we solemnly appenl to God forsuch graces ud Uessings as are theo proper to the occasion. Otherwise the mock ceremony, instead of blessing our victuab, doei bat accustom us to trifle with devotion, and gire us a bab>. it oyMii^ unaffected with oar prayers.

l^krery head of a family was, at the return of ev«rf , oiealjpte oblige himself to make- a solemn adoration of God, in sucli a decent manner as becomes adevoat mind) it would be very likely to teach him, that swearing, sen* Buality, gluttooy, and loose discourse, were very improp- er at those meals, which were to begin and end with de< Totion.

And if in these days ^ (general corrnption, this p«rt o( devotion jgi^g^eo into a mock ceremony, it must be im- puted to n^Xause, that seiiBualily and inl>^mperance haT£ got fl||||^Feat a power over us, to suffer us tb'add any devotion to our meals. But thus much muft be said, that when we are as pious as Jews and Heathens of alt ages lisT«beeai wa nhnll think it proper to pi^y' Bt the beginmug and end of our meals. ' 1 have appealed to this pious custom of all ages of the world, as a proof of the reasonableness of thp doctrine of ' this and the foregoing chapters : that is, as a [jroot Uiat religion is to be the rule aqd mesiure of alt tbe actions of ordinary life. For surely, if we are not to eat, but under such rules of devotion, it must plainly appear, thut what- ever else we'do, lawi in its proper way, be done with lh« same regard to the glory of God, and ^^ceably to th« principles qf adevoutand pious mind:



iiyGooglc



X SEHIOUft CAIX TKktk



i^



fell



ferMBS that ue fttt ttam the neEcnitj of labour and emploj- meati are to conridet tbemaeUea at dsTOted to 6od in ft ^b*' degree. Mf

A GREAT part of the worH are free fr^ the necessilies of IhImhif and employ meots, and have their time amt fortunes at Uieir own dtepoaal.

But as no one is to hve in his emptojment accoriSn^ bitoiMir, or for sacb en<)s as please his own

icj, but is to do all his business in such a manner, as to mnka it n service unto God ; so those win have no par- ticnlar employmenf, are so thr from heinaOMtot Renter fibnty to live to themselves, to pursu^^pr own hu^ m<WB, and speoit their time and forlunes'fBHie}' please, Hial they are under greater obhgBtions of living wholly unto God in all tbeir actioDS. ~ ^s /i"'oS:IiS!n »f tilC'f 3iHfe lays them nniler » greater • necessity of always choosing and doing the best things. '. They are those, of whom much will be required, be- cause much is given unto them.

A slave can only live unto God in one particular way ; that is, by religious patience and submission in his state ofalnvery.

But all ways of holy living, all instances, anci all kinds of virtue, lie open to those who are masters of thein- selves, their time and their fortunes.

It is as much the duty, thereftre, of such persona to make a wi°c use of their liberty, to devote themselves to all kinm of virtue, lo aspire after every thing that is holy, and pious, to endeavour lo be eminent in all good work^ and to please God in the highest and most perfect man- ner ; it is as much their duly to be thus wise in the con- duct of themselves, and thus extensive in their endeav- ours after holiness, as it is the duty of a slave to be re- signed unto God in his state of slavery.

You ai* no labourir, or tradesman, you are neiQbr jBeccbanl itor soldier; aqpsider yourself, therefore, m



•uajWte AND HOLT LKH. 7,

phced in n state in some degr«Q Hke that of good ang^eb, who are ^glmto the voriti as miDistenng spirits, for tbe 'general g^6 of iDHiikmt), to assist, protect, and isiaiBter for tbem ^o shall tte heirs of salration. 9Fer tbe more you are free from Ihe common Becesn- ties of men, the more ;o» are to imitate the higher per- fections of angels.

Had you, Serena, been obliged by the nec^nties of life^l^ wash clotiieB for yonr maintenance, or to watt opcn^prae mistress, that demanded ali yoor labour, il woutdthen be your dnty to serre and glorify God, by inch humiUty, obedience, and faithfulness, as might adorn that state of life.

It would then be recommended to your care, to im- prove that one talent to its grt'ateat height. That when the time came that mankiiid were to be rewarded for dieir lab^a by the great Judge of quick and dead, you migh^^tecei*ed with a -aiell doni good and^^iiUk- jvl Mersant^ iflljf ihou wio the joy of the Lord. St. Matt.

Bat as God has given yon five talents, as he has placed yon above the necessities of life,*a9 he fass left you in the hands of yourself in the happy liberly of choo^^JDg tbe iBiost exalted ways of virtue, as he hasanriched you with v. many gifts of fortune, and left you nothing to do, but to .make the best use of variety of blessings, to make the most of a short life, to study your own perfection, the honour of God and the good of your neighbour; so il is now your duty to imitate the greatest servants of God, lo inquire how the moat eminent saints have lived, to fltudy all the arts and methods of perfection, and lo sut no bounds -to your love and gratit^e to the bountiful Author of so many blessings.

If is now your duty to turn your five talente Itio five more, and lo consider how your time, and leisure, and health, and fortune, may be made so mimy bappy meaiii of purifying your own Boul, improviug your fellow-crea- tures in tbe ways of virtue, and of carrying you at last to the greatest heights of eternal glory.

As you have no mistress to serve, so tfet your own aoul -;b$^^e object of your daily care and attendance. Be



i-GoojjIc



-73 A SEMOUS CJXL 1%^^ *

sorry for its impuritiei, its ^tots snd iA£erfecttons, anS fltudy all the holy arts of restoring it to it^^tural and primitive purity, ^

Delight in its service, and beg of God to adorn it with •Tcry grace and perfection. %

Nourish it witb good works, giv&tt peace in solitude, ' get it etrength in prayer, make it wise niih readily enlightu it by meditation, make it tender with love^ Bweete't with humility,' humble it with patieno^i en- Mvea it with psalms and hymas, and comfort if', with frequent reflections upon future glory. Keep it in the presence of God, and teach it to imitate those guardian ai^els, who, though they attend to human aSairs, and the, lowest of mankind, yet ats'ayt behold the face of our Fqiker " vhich is in heavm. SL MatL sviii. 10.

This, Serena, is your profession. For as sure as God ' is oue God, so aure it is, that be has but oneii^ommaod to " l^nkind, whether they be bond or free,'TLOfe or poor; Ttat is, to act up to the excellency f f ^hat uature a, he has given to them, to live by reason, to walk ta the light of religion, to use every thing as wisdom directs, to glorify God mall bis glib, and dedicate every. condition of life to bis serrice.

»This is the one common command of God to all mankind. If you have an employment, you are to be thus reasonable, and pious, and holy in the exercise of it ; if you have time, and a fortune in your own pow- .er, you are obUged to be thus reasonable, and holy, and pious, in the use of all your time, and all your for-

The right religious use of every thing, and every tal- *: ent, is the indispensible duty of eyry being that is capa- ble of knowing right and wrong.

For fce reason why we ore to do any thing as unto God, and with regard to our duty, and relation- to him, if: the same reason, why we are to do every thing as unto God, and with regard to our duty, aciA relation to him.

That, which is a reason for our being wise. and holy in the discharge of all our business, is the same reason .^ our being wise and holy in (he use of all our rooMy-



mGooglc






* OEVOUT ASD HOLY LlflL \3

As we have always the same oatiires, and are every -where the servants of -the same God, as every place is . leqiially full oi' Wts preu^nce, and every thin^ i» equally hia gil^, so we must always act Hccordiog to the reason of our nature ; we most do erery Ihing as the servaots of God ; we must Hf* in every place, as in his presence ; we mai;t use every thing, as that ought to be used, which belotKs to God.

EmtKc thi» piety and wisdom, and devotion* to go through evwy way oi hfe, and to extend to the use of every thing, or it is to go through no part of hfe.

If we might forget ourselves, or foi^et God, if we mie^ht disregard our reason, and live by humour and fancy in any thing, or at any time, or in any place, it would he as lawfuUo do the same in every thing, at every time, and every place.

If therefore, some people fancy that they must be ^ve andsoleom at church, but nlay be silly and f .tic at home ; that they must live by some rule <| Sunday, but may spend other days by chance ; that mu^t have some times of prayer, but m;»y waste the rest of their time as they please ; that they must give some money in charity, but miy sijuander away the rest as ' (hey have a mind j such jieople have not enough con->id- " ered the nature of religion, or the Irite reasons of pi- ety. For be that upon principles of reason, can (ell why it is good lo be wise and heavenly minded at church, can tell that it's always desirable, to have the same tem- pers in all other places. He that truly knows, why he shoald ^pend any time well, Lnow? that it is never allow- able to throw any time away. He that righUy* under- ■ stanJs the reasonablaiess and excellency of charily, will know that it can never be escusable to wa^te any •of our money in pride and folly, or in any noonSeas es- peows.

for every argument that shews the wisdom and excel- lency of charity, proves the wisdom of spemiing all our - fortune well.- Every ar^umenl that proves tbe wisdom and reasonableness of having times of prayer, shews (he wisdom and reasonableness oflosing none of our time.

liany one could shew, thai we need not always act aa Ju (he divine presence, that we need not cousidcr and u;e



74 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

ever; thii^, as the gift of God, tlint we need not atway* live by-reasoD, and moke religion the rule of all oar ac- tons, the same arguments nould Eb«w, (hat we neeil never act as ia the preeeace of God, nor make religion and reason the measure of any of our actions. If there- * foi;e we are to live unto God at any time, or in any place, we are to live unto him at all times, (in<l alt places. If we arcj^o u»e any thing as the giit of God, we are to use every thing as Itis gift. If we are to-do any, Ibing by sUict rules of reason and piety, we ought.to do evei^ thing in the same manner. Because reason, and wis- dorm, and piety are as much the best things at all times, and in all places, as they are the best things at any time, or in any place.

If it is our glory and happiBCSS to have a rational na- ture, that is endued with wisdom and reason, that is ca- pable of imitating the divine nature ; then it must he otir ||mv and hnfipiness, to improve our reason and wisdoia, flH|iq) to Ihe excellency of our rational nature, and fo imnne God in all our actions, to the utmost of our powr- eri They iherefore, who conline religion to times and places, and some liltle rules of retirement, who tbinlE that it is being too strict and rigid to introduce religion into common life, and make it give laws to all tlteir ac- tions and ways of living, they who think thus, not oaij mistake, but they mistake the whole nature of religion. For ^rely they mistake the whole nature of reltgion, who can think finy part of their life is made more f^as^, for being free from it. They may well be said to mis- take t|)e .whole nature of wisdom, who don't thmk it de- lirahle, to be always wise. He has not leamt the nature of piety, who thinks it Coo much to be pious in all his ac- tions. He does not sufficiAitly unileretand what reason is, who does not earnestly desire to live in every thing accordii^ (o it.

If we had a religion that consisted in absurd Bnj>er- •titiens,4hat had no regard to the perfection of our na;- tore, people might well be glad to have some part of their life excused from \t Bot as the religion of the Gospel is only H)e refinement and eaaltation of our best faculties, as ironly requires a life of the highest ratson, AS it only requires va to nse this tvorttt as in reason it



UEffOUT AND HOLY UTE. ',i

vt^ht lo be used, to live in such tempers aa are lUe giory df intelligent beings, to waik in sucii wisdom ns exalts our nature, and to praise such piety, as will ntise s^'lo' God ; wbo can think it grieTOus, to Uve always in the spirit «f such a religion, to have every part of his life fuU »f it, but he that would think it much more grievous, t» be as the angels of God in heaven ?

Farther, as God is one and the same Being^ always Kting like himself and suitably to his own nalnre, so it is the duty^of every being that he has cre^ed, to li\|p according to the nature that he ha^ given it, and alwaya- lo act like itself.

It is therefore an immutable law of God, that all ra- . tional heings should act reasonably in all their action* v not at this time, or in that place, or upon this occasion, or in the use of some particular tbii^, but at all limes, in all places, at all occasions, and in the use of all things. Yhis is a law that is as unchaogeable as God, and ctaf »»' aore cease t« be, than God can cease to be a God <if wis- dom and order.

When" therefore any being that is endued with reasoir . does an unreasonable thing at any time, or in any place, or in the use of any thing, it sins against the great law of_ its nature, abusea itself, and sios against God the author of' that nature.

They therefore, who plead for indulgencies and vatu- lies, for any foolish fashions, customs and humours of the vorid, for the misuse of our time or money, plead for a rebellion against our nature, for a rebellion against God, who has given us reason forno other end, than to make ■t Sie mie and measure of all our ways of life.

When therefore you are guilty of any folly or estrav- ^aace, or indulge any vain temper, don't consider it as t small matter, because it may seem so, if compared lo some other sins ; but consider it as it is, acting contrary to jour natnire, and then you will see that there is oottiing' ■mill that is unreasonable. Because all unreasonable ways are contrary to the nature -of all rational beings, whether men or angels. Neither of which can be any {onger agreeable to God, than so far as they act accord- S>g to the reason and escellence of their nature. The infirmities of human life make such food ani



76 ^ A SERIOUS CALL TO A

raiment necesMry for ua, as an^ls do not want: bnt then it is no more allowable for m lo turn llieae necessi- ties into folKeg, and indulge oureelve^ in the luxury of food, or the vnnitiei of dress, than it is allowable for ' ang^els to act below the dignity of their proper slate. — For a reasonable life, and a wise nse of our proper con-- ditiOD, is as much the doty of all men, as it it the du^ of all auKls and intelligent bein^. These are not spec- ulatire tTights, or imaginary notions, bnt are plain and' undeniable laws, thai are founded in the nature of ra- tional beings, who as such are obliged to live by reason, and glorify God by a continual right use of their seVeral' talents and facilities. So that though men are not angels, yet they may know for what ends, and by what rules men are to li^e and act, by considering the state and perfection of angels. Our blessed Sariour has plaioty^ turned our thoughts this way, by makint this petition a (^Mttnt part of all our prayers, Thy witlbe done on eartk a^lfrin hamett. A plain proof that the obedience of men, is to imitate the obedience of angels, and that ra- . tional beings on earth, are to live unto God, as* rational beings in hearen lire unto hinr.

When therefore you would represent to your mind, how Christians ought to live unto God, and in what de- grees of wisdom and hohoess they ought to use the things of this life ; you must not look at the world, but you must took up to God and the society of angels, aiM)' think what wisdom and holiness is tit (o prepare you for such a state of glory ; you must look to all the highest precepts of the gospel ; you must examine yourself by the spirit of Christ ; you must think how the wisest men. in the world have lived ; you must think how departed souls would live, if Ihey were again to act the short pHrt of human life; you must think what degrees of wisdom and holiness you wiH wish for, when you are leaving the world.

Now all this is not overv?! raining the matter, or propo- sing'to ourselves any needless perfection. It is but bare- ly complying with the apostle's advice, where he says. Finally bretkrerif whalaoever things are tnie, ■whaticever things are jiat, wlmlsotvfr things are pure, ifluilsoever . thin-^t are nf ^nocl report : if Iherr be am/ viriv.e. and if



flETOUT AND HOLT LIFE. ^ H

# Ikere be itny praise, tHinl on then thingt. Phil. iv. 8. For ho one can come near the doctrine of thi» pa^safp, but be that proposes to hiimelf to do every thing in lhi< Bfe as a sen-ant of God, to live by reason in every thing that he i^ocs, an<l to make the nisdom and holiness of the Gos|)et, the rule and tneasiire of his desiring and u>- ing e»erv gift of God.



CofTlHiniii? t1ie great obligation*, arid die [rrcat aarantngea of raakiuj a wise aod religibua nse or our tstaltt and/orhliitj.

AS the holmess of Cbristianity conBecrates alt tilaEes and employments of life unto God, gs 11 requires OS to aspire aA;er an nnirersal obedience, doing and usii^ every thing aj the servants nf God, so are we more eape- cialiy obliged to obaerre this rehgioiis esactsess, is the VK of our estates and fortunes.

The reason of this would appear very plain, if we were only to consider, that our estate is us much the gift of God, as OUT eyes, or our hands, and is no more to he bufied, or thrown away at pleasure, than we are to put ont our eyes, or throw aWay our Umbs, as we please.

But besides this consideration, there are several other great and importaot reasoes, why we should be religiouv ly exact in- the use of our estates.

Fintf Because the manner of using our money, or Ending OUT estate, enters so far into the business of • every day, and makes so great a part of our common tfe, that our common life must be mtKb of the same na- ftire, as our common way of spending' our estate. If reason and religion govern us in this, then reason and ieli!!:ion hath got great hold of us ; but if humour, pride Mid iaocy, are the meiisures of our spending our estates, then humour, pride and fancy, will have the direction of !(« great«st part of our life.

SeeotuUji, Another great reasoa toe devoting sll oar 7*



78 . A &i;K10US CALL TO A

%

estate tu righ* uses, ii this, because il is capable of beiag- used to the most excellent purposea, anil is so great a means of doing good. If we wuste it, we don't waste a Iride. that signifies little, but we waste tbat, which tnigiit be. made as eyes to the blind, as a husband to the widow, as a father to the orphan; we waste that, which not^nly enables ns to minister worldly comforts 1o those - who are in distress, but that which might porchase for ourselves everlasting treasures in heaven. So that if we part with our money in foolish ways, we part with » great power, of comforting our fellow-creatures, and of making ourselves forever blessed.

If there be nfttbing sa glorious as'doing good, if there is nothing that makes us so like to God, then nothing- can he soglocicnis iwthe use of our money, as to urn it all in works of love and goodness, making ourselves friends, fathers, benefactors, to all our. lei low-creatures, imitetina; the divine love, and turning all our power into acts' of gen^osity, care and kindness, to such as are ia need of it.

If a man had eyes, and hands, and feet, that, he could give to those who wanted them; if he Miould either lock them up in a chest, or please himself with some needless or ridiculous use of them, instead of giving them to his brethren who were blind and lame, should we not justly reckon htm an inhumaa wretch ? If he should rather choose to amuse himself with furnishing his house with those Ihii^s, than, to entitle himself to an eternal reward, by giving them to those that wanted eyes and- hands, might we not justly reckon him mad?

Now money has very much the nature of eyes and feet ; if we either lock it up in cheats, or waste it in needless and ridiculous expenses upon ourselves, whilst the poor and the distressed want it for their necessary uses ; if we consume it in the ridiculous ornaments of apparel, whilst others are starving in nakedness, we are ROt far from the cruelty of him that chooses rather to adorn bis bouse with the bands and eyes, than to give them to those that want them. If we choose to indulge ourselves in such eipenuve enjoyments, as have no real use in them, such as satisfy ne real want, rather than to entitle ourselves to an eternal reitard, bj disposing o(



DEVOUT. AND HOLT UTE. n

our moDcy well, we are guilty of his madnesi, that raiher chooses to lock up eyes and hands, than to make himself forever blessed, by giving diem to those that want them.

For after we have satisfied our owd sober and rea- sonable waats, ail the rest of oar m<niey is but like ^are eyes, or banJs; it is somethieg that we canaat keep to ourselves, without being foolish in the use of it, something that can only be used well, by giving it to tbose who want it.

lliirdly. If we waste our money, we are not only guilty 01 wasting a talent which God has given us, we are not only guilty of making that useless, which is so ■ powerful a means of doing good, but we do ourselves this f^trther harm, thai we turn this useful talent into a ipBw^rful means -of corrupting ourselves; becatise so far as it is spent wrong, so far it is spent in the support-of some wrong temper, in gratifying some vain and unrea* soaable desires, in conforming to tbose fash)pM and pride of the world, which, as Christians and reasMable man^ we arc obliged to reiwunce.

As wit 'tOifl Ane parts cannot be trifled away and only lost, but will expose those that have them into greater follies, if they are not strictly devoted to piety ; so mo- ney, if it is not used strictly according to reason and re- UgioQ, cannot onl^ be trifled away, but it will betray peo- ple into greater lollies,and make them live a more silly and evtravagant life, than they could have done without it, if, therefore, you don't spend your money in doing good to others, you must spend it to the hurt of yowv self. You will act like a man (bat should refuse t9 give that as a cordial to a sick friend, though he could Bot drink it himself without inflamisg his blood. For this ia the case of snperfluous money if yoa give it (e Ihme that want it, it is a cordial; if y«u spend it upon yourself in something that you do not want, it only in- flames and disorders your mind, and makes you worse tbaa you would he without it.

Consider t^ain the forementioned comparison ; if the man that would not make a right use of spare eyes and haads, should by continually tryii^ to use them himseli^



W i SERKWra CAIi TO A

spoil his own eyes and hands, ve might justlj accuse tittt wT still greater madnesx. .

Now this is truly the case of riches R|Kflt npon oar- selvea in rain and needless eipenaea ; in Irving' to use them where ther hare no reid affi, nor we say real want, we only use them lo our great hurt, in creating unrea- sonable desires, in nourishing ill tempers, in indulgii^ our pasuons, and »ipporting a worldly, ¥«in turn ot mind. For high eating and drinking, line clothes, end fine houses, state and equipage, gny pleasures and direr-- sions, do aH of them naturally hurt and disorder oar hearts ; they are the food and nourishment of all the 'folly and wealtDess of our nature, and are certain means ixs make na Tain and world^ in our lenipera. They are all of them the support of something that oagbt not lo be supported ; they are contrary to that sobriety and pt- ety of heart, which relishes divine things ; they are like to mnny weights upon our minds, that make us less able, and le^ iuUsed to raise up our thoughts and aft'ections bf the thii^ that are above.

So that money thus spent, is not merely wasted or h)st, but it is spent to bad pnrfloses, and miserable effecls,- to the corruption and disorder of our hearts, and to the making us less able to .lire up lo the sublime doctrines ef the Gospel. It is but like keeping money from the poor, to buy poison for ourselves.

For 90 much as is speat in the vanity of dress, may be »eckoned so much laid out to fix vanity' in our minds. — So much as is laid out for idleness and indulgence, may be reckoned so milcb given to render our hearts dull and sensual. So much a^ts spent in state and equipage, may be reckoned so much spent to dazzle your own eyes, and render you the idol of your own imi^ination. ^And so m every thing, when you go from reasonoblc wants,. - you only support some unreasonable temper, some turn of mind, whidt every good Christian is called upon to re-

So that on all accounts, whether we consider our for* bine as a talent and trust from God, or the great good that it enables us to do, or the great harm thaf it does to vutseWes, if idly spent j on s^t these great accsoulB' it



II, Google



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. St

appears, (hat it Is absolutely neceflsary, to miMk reasoa and religion the strict rule of using all our fortune.

Every exhoTtatioa in Scripture to t>e wise and reason", alilc, sfttisfyirig' oaly euch wants a» God would have ■alisjied; eiery ezlio'rtatioQ to be epiritual and heavenly, presBiog' after a gUnnus change of our nature ; evirj exhortation to love our neighbour aa oursehes^to love all mankind as God has loved them, is a commaod to be strictly religioun Id the ute of our inoDcy. For none ef these tempers can be complied with, nnless we be wise and reasonable, cpiriliial and heavenly, exercising a brotherly love, a godlike charity in the use of all our fortune. These tempers, and this nte of oqf worldly . goods, is so much the doclrine of all the ^ew 1'csta' Bient, thnt you cannot read a chapter, without being taught Homething of il. 1 shall only produce one re- loarkable passage of Scripture, which is suliicieiit to justify all that 1 have said concerniog this religious use of all our fortune.

" When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. And before him shall be gathered all nations ; and he shall separate them one from another, *aa shepherd divideth the sheep from the goats; and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on ihe left. Then shall the King say unto them on his right band, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the king- dom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. .Fori was an hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thiraly, and ye gave me drink ; I was a stranger, and je took me in ; naked, and ye clothed me ; 1 was sick and ye visited me ; I was in prison and ye came unto me. — Then shall he say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his nngels : for I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat ; i was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink ; 1 was a stranger, and ye took me not in ; naked, and ye clothed me not ; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. These shall go away inio overlasling punistr- menl, but the righteous into life eternal."

1 have quoted this passage at length, because if one looks at the way of the world, one would hardly thinks



St ' A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Uiat Chilians had ever read this part of Scripture.— For-what is there in the lives of Christians, that lo<Jct as if their salvation depended upon these good works T And yet the necessi^ of them is here asserted in the highest manner, and pressed upon' ub by a lively de- KripliaD of the glory and terrars of the day of judf- meot. , '^

SoiDC people, e^en of tlKwe who may be reckoned virtutous Christians, look upon this tect only as a general recommendation of occasional works of charity ; whereas it shews the necea^ty not only of occasional cbsritiei now and then, but the nccessl^ of such an entire charita- .ble |jf«, as is a continual exercise of all such norks of charity as we are able to perform.

You own that ycu have no title to salvation, if yon ''have neglected these good works; because such persona as have neglected them^ ape at the List day t« be placed- em the left hand,, and banished with a Depart ye cureed. There is,- 1 he re fore,- no salvation bat in the performanca ef these good works.-- Who is it, therefore, that may be said to have performed these good works T Is it he Ifaat ha» sometimes assisted' a prisoner; or reheved the' poor or sick ? This- would be as absurd, as to say, that he haiV performed the duties of devotion, who had some- times said his prayers. Is it, therefore, be that has sev- eral times done Ifaese works- of charity f This can n«' more be stiid,-than he cian he said to be the truly just man, who had done acts of justice several times. What is the rule therefore, or measure of performing these good works? How shall a man- trust that he performl' them as he ongtt?

Now the rule is veiy plain and easy, and such as is common to every other virtue, or gt)od temper, aB weH as to charity. Who is the humble, or meek, or devout, or just, or faithful man? h it he that has sere ral limes done acb of bumihty, meekness, devotion, Justice, or fidelity ? No. But it is he that lives in the habitual ex- ercise of these virtues. In like manner, he only can be said to have performed these works of ciiadty, who lives- in the habitual eiercise of them to the utmost of his- power. He only has performed the duty of divine love,- who loves God with .all hi* heart, and with all his mind,.



I«VOUT AHD HOLT LIFE. 85

and wiUi all bia strength. AdcI he only has peribnneil * the duty of these good norke, who has doae them with all his beurt, and with all his mind, and with all his stre[^;th. For there is no other measnie of our doing good, than our power of doing it. *

The Ai>ostle St. Peter puis this qnestion to our Meseed Savioir, Lordy how oji ihull mi/ brother sin agaiiut me and ■Ifmrgivt fcwn ,■ till seven times ? Jt^ia lailh tMlo kim, I tay not unto thet, tintil jei<en Matt. iii. St. linei; but vatil teveiity fit/Ms leven. Not u if after this onmber of oAencex, a man might then ceage to for^vej but the eipresNon of aerenty times aev- CQ, is to shew us that we^re acA to bound our {ar^vt' neas by any number of offences, but are to continue for- giving the m»st repeated oSence" agaiiut ss. Thus our Saviour saith in another place, if be trespass against thee seveD times in a Luke xrJi. 4. .day, anileeven times in a day tunt^tgain ^

to thee, saying, 1 repent, than' shall forgive him. If, itherefore, a man censes to foigive his brother, because he has foi^ven himoAen already ; if he excuses himseff from forgiving this mnn, because he has forgives several , others; such a, one breaks this law of Christ, coocenmig the forgiving one's brother.

Now the rule of forgiving, is also the rule of giving ; jou are not to give, or do good to seven, but to seventy hioes seven. Sou are Dot to cease from giving, because fou have given ot\eii to the same persoq, or to other persons; but must look upon yonriielf as much obliged to continue relieving those that continue ia w^ants, as you was obliged to relieve them once, or twice. Had it not been in your power, you had been excused from relieving any person once ; but if it is in your power to relieve people often, it is as much yoitr duty to do it often, as It is the duty of others to do it but seldom, because they are but seldom able. ,He tbal is not ready to foigive every brother, as often as be wants to be for- given, does not foi^ive tike a disciple of Cbdst. And , ■he that is not ready to give to every brother, that wants to have something given him, does not give like a disci- ple of Christ. For it i^ as necessary to give to seventy times seven, to live in the continual exercise of all good



•^l^^W"^'-



A SESIIOUS CALL TO J



" -works t^he ulmoat of onr power, as it is necessary l»

forgive until aeveniy times seven, and live in the habit- ual exercise of this forgiving temper towards ali that want it.

Anil the reason of all this is very pkin, because there is thtfSame goodne^?, the same excellency, and the same necessity of being thus charitable at one lime, asfct an- other. Il is as much the best use of our money, to be aliviiys doing good withit, as if is the best use of it at any particular time ; so that that which is a reason for n charitSible action, is as good a reason for a charitable life. That which is a reason for foii^-iving one offence, is the s>ime reason for forgiving all offences. For such ch.trity has nothing to recommend it to-day, but Rh»t wHl be the same recommendation of it to-morroiv ; and yon cannot neglect it ut one time, without being guilty of the same sin, as if you neglected it another time.

As sure, therefore, as these works of charity are ne- cessary to salvation, so sure is it, that we are to do them to the utmost of our power ; not to-day, or lo-morrow, but through the whole course of our life. If therefoce it be our duty at any time lo deny ourselves any needlan expenses, to be moderate and frugal, that we may have k to give to those that want, it is as much our duty to do 90 at all limes, that we may be farther able to do more good: for if it is at any time a sin lo prefer needles* vain expense, to works o£ charity, it is ^o at all times : because chanty as much excels all needless and vain ex- pense, at one time as at another. So that if it is ever necessary to our salvation, to take care of these ivorks ot charity, tmd to see that we make ourselves in some de- gree capable of doing them ; it is as necessary to our sal- vation, to take care to make ourselves as capable as w« can be, of performing thetn iu all the parts of our hfe.

Either therefore you must so far renounce your Chris- tianity, as to say, that you need never perform any of these good works ; or you must own, that you are to perform them alt your life in as high a degree as you • are able. There is no middle way to be taken, any -more than there is a middle way betwixt pride and hu- ■mility, or temperance and intemperance. If you do not .-Strwe lo fulfil all charitable works, if you neglect any .0/



^



DEVOUT AND HOLY US% ti

■Oiem that are in yourpower, and deny assistance to those !hal want what you can give, let it be when it will, or where it will, you number yourself amongst those that want Christian charily. Because it is as much vour duty to do good with all that jon have, and (o li^e in .the continual exercise of good works, as it is yow duty to be temperate in all that you eat and drink.

Hence also appears (he necessity of renouncing alUhose foolish and unreasonable expenses, whicJi the pride and folly of mankind hae made so common and fashionable in the world. For if il is necessary to do good works a> far as you are able, it must be as necessary to renounce" those needless ways of spending money, which reader yon unable to do works of charity.

You must therefore no niore conform to tfaese ways ■of the world, than you must conform lo the ¥ices of the world : you must no more spend with those that idly waste their money ^ their own humour leads Ihem, than you must drink witli the drunken, or indulge yourself with the epicure ; because a course of such expenses is no more consistent with a life of charity, than excess in drinking is consistent with a life of sobriety. When therefore any one tells you of the lawfulness of expensive apparel, of the innocency of pleasing yourself with costly^:- satiafactions, only imagine that the same person was to tell you, that you need not do works of charily, that , Christ does not require you to do good unto your poor brethr^i, as «nto him, and then you will see the wicked- ness of such ailyice ; for to tell you, that you may live in such expenses, as to make it impossible for you to lire in the exercise -of good works, is the same thing as tell- ing you, that you need not have any care a,bout such :£Ood wark£ themselves.



D„..JnGQf>gk-



A SERIOUS CALL TO A



Hairtt)ein>P<'u[lent aw ntaneitalt comiptBBll (lie tempers oftbe ' mina, and fiOa Ihe heart with poor and ridiculous faBsJon*

through the whole coune of lite : repreaenled iu the cniacter

ef FUnaa.

IT has already been observed, that a prudent ■■' of -F ■



and religious care is to he uaed, in the manner of spend- ing our money or estate, because tbe manner of spending our estate makes so ^eat a part of our common life, and is so much tbe business of erery day, that accoMing aa we are wise, or imprudent, in this respect, the whole course of our lires, will be rendered either very vrise, or very full of folly.

Persons Uiat are well affected to religion, Ibat receive instructions of piety with pleasure and satisfaction, often wonder how it comes to pass that they make no greater pr<^ress in that religion which they so much admire.

Now the reason of it is this : it is because religion lives onlv in their bead, but something else has posses- 1^ lion of their hearts ; and Uierefore they continue iroia year to year mere admirers,' and jvaisers of pie^, with- out ever coming up to the reality and perfection ot its precepts.

If it be asked why religion does not get possession of their hearts, the reason is this. It is not because they Jive in gross sins, or debaucheries, for their regard to rcT ligion preserves them from such disorders.

But it is because their hearts are constantly employed, perverted, and kept iti a wrong state, by the indiscreet «Be of such thiflgt as are lawful to be used.

The use nod enjoyment of their estates is lawful, and



therefore it never comes into their heads to imagine any great danger from that quarter. They Aver reflect, that there is ft vain, and imprudent use of uieir estates, which



though it does not destroy like gross sins, yet so disorder* the heart, and supports it in such sensuality and dulness, SDcn pride and vanity, as makes it incapable of receiviJkg fbe uia akd spirit of piety.



^



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFB. «

for our souls may receire ao infinite hurt, and be ren- dered incapnble of all virtue, merely by the use of inno* cent and lawful things. •

What is more innocent than rest and retirementT And yet nhat more dtu^erous, than sloth and idleness t Whftt is mom lawful than eating and drinking? And yefwbat ■nore*eUructiTe of all virtue,, what more finilTul of all vice, than sensuaUly and indulgence ?

How lawful aod praise-worthy is the care of a family! And yet how certainly are many people rendered in- cap^le pf all virtue, by a worldly and soUcilous tem- per 1

Now it is for want of religious esaclnese in the use of these innocent and lawful things, that religion cannot get possession of our hearts. And it is in tlie right and prudent management of ourselves, as to these things, that all the art of holy living chiefly consists.

Gross sins are plainly seen, and easily avoided by per- long that profess religion. But the indiscreet and dan- gerous use of innocent and lawful things, as it does not shock and offend our conscience, so it is difficult to make people at all sensible of the danger of it.

A gentleman who spends all his estate in sports, and a woman that lays out all her fortune upon herself, can - hardly be persuaded that the spirit of religion cannot subsist io such a way of life.

These persons, as has beep observed, may live free from debaucheries, they may be friends of religion, so far as to praise and speak well of it, and admire it in their imaginations ; ^ut it cannot govern their hearts, and be the spirit of their actions, till they change their way of Qfe, and let religion give laws to the use and spend- ing of their estates.

For a woman who loves dress, that thinks do expense too great lo beslow upon the adorning of her person, cannot stop there. For Ihat temper draws a thousand other folhes along with it, and will render the whole course of her life, her business, her conversation, her hopes, her fears, her taste, her pleasures, and diversions, all suitable to it.

Flavia and Miranda are two maiden sisters, who have each of them two hundred pounds a year. They buried



U A SERIOtlB CALL TO- A

tbeir parents twent; yean ^v, and hare Rince that time- ■pent tbeir estate as they pleased.

Ftovia has been the wooder of all her friends, for her eKcellent maDagement, ia makingr so aarprising a figure on BO moderate a fortune. Several ladies that have twictf her fortune, are not able ahvays to be eo $^te^, and tocoDBtaat at all places of pleasure and eKpenee. Sh6 has every thing that is in the faefaion, and is in every place where there is any diversion. Flsvia is very orthodox ; she talks warmly against heretics, and Bcb»r matics, is generally at chnrch, and oflea at the sacra- ment. She once commended a sermon that nas against the pride and vanity of dresa, and thought it was very jwtt against Liucinda, ivhom she takes to be a great deal fiser thai) she need to be. If any one asks Flavia to do something in chfirity, if she likes the pei>un who make»- the proposal, or happens to be in a right temper, she will toss him half a crown, or a crowu, and tell him, if he knew what a long milliner's hill she had just received he would think it a great deal for her to give. A quarter of a year after this, she hears a sermon upon the necessi- ty of charity; ghe thinks the man preaches well, that it is a very proper subjecf, that people want much to be ■*put in mind of it ; but she apphes nothing to hereeif, be»' cause she remembers that she gave a crown some time- ago, when she could so ill spare it.

As for poor people lheins£]vc», she will admit of no-, romplaints from them; she is very positive they are all . i-heais and liiirs, and will say any thing to get relief, aofl theret'ore it must be a sin to encourage them in their evit

You would think Flavia had the tenderest conscience^ in the world, if you was to see how scrup^ilous and apprehensive she is of the guilt and danger of giving

She buys all books of wit and humour, and has made an expensive collection of all our English Poets. For, she says, one cannot have a true taste of any of them,, without being very conversant with them all.

She will sometimes read abook of piety, if it ia a short one, if it is much commended for stylo and Isnguage, and fhe ean tell where to boraow it.



DEVOUT JJfD BOLT LIFE. S»

Plavia ia very idle, aw] jet very fond of fine works ; this makes her often sit fforkiog id bed until noon: and be told many a long story^efore she is up ; so fiat 1 ■ need not tetl yon that her morning devotions are not al- ways rightly perfoniied.

Flavia would be a miracle of piety, if she wa^bnt hal^ K careful of her soul as she is of her body. The rising of a pimple in her iace, the sting of a gnat, will make her keep her room two' or three days, and she thinks Uiey are very rash people, that do not take care of things in time. This makes her bo over-careful of her health, that she never thinks she is welt enough ; and so over- indulgent, that she never can be really well. So that it coets her a great deal in sleeping-draughts, and waking- draughts, in spirits for th'e head, in drops for the nerves, in cordiab for tire stomach, and in saffron for her tea.

If you visit Ktavia Rn the Sunday, you will always meet good company, yon will know what is doing in the world, you will hear the last lampoon, be told who wrote it, and who is meant by every name ihnt is in it. You will hear what plays were acted that week, which is the finest song in the opera, who was intolerable at the last assembly, and what games are most in fashion. Flavia thinks they are atheists that piay at cards on the Sun- day, hot she will tell yon lie nicely of all the games, what cards she held, how she played them, and the his tory of all that happened at play, as soon as she comes from church. If you would know who is rude and ill- natured, who is vain and foppish, who Jives too high, and who is in debtj if yoi» would know what is die quarrel, at a certain hoose, or who and who are in love ; if you would know how late Belinda comes home at night, what clothes she has bought, how she loves -com- pliments, and what a long story she told at such a place ; if you would know how c^HniCLacius is to hi» wife, what ill-natured things he says, to her when nobody bears him,' if you would know how they hate one an- other in their hearts, though they appear so kind in pub- lic; you must visit Flavia on the Sunday. But still she haa so great a regard for the holiness of die Sunday, that ahe has tunied a poor old widow vnt of her house, as a



M A SERroOS C*LI. TO A

profane wrelch, for haviftj been fosnd once mendings her' clothes on the Sunday ni^lit.

'rtua lives Flavia; and ifjhe lives ten years longer, «he will have spent ^out fifieen hundred and sisty Snn- days after this manner. She wilt haye wore abont'two hundred #ffereqt suits of clothei. Out ef this thirty years of her life, fifteen of them will have been disponed of in bed ; Mid of the remaining fifteen, about fourteen of them wiR have been cot»<imed in eating, drinking, dreas- ing, visiting, conversation, reading and hearing play* . ;ind romances, at operas, assemblies, balls and diverHions. For you ravy reckon all th« time she is up, thus spent, except about aa hour and a half, that is disposed of at eharch, most Sundajrs in the year. With great mwiage- laenl an4 mder mighty rules of ec<rDomy, she will tune* _spent sirty hundred pounds upon herself, bating only tome diillings, crowns, or half-<?towTiBf that have gone from her in accidental charities.

1 shall not take upon me to say, that it is impossible- for Flavia to be saved; but thus much ntust be said,. . that she has no grounds from Scripture to tfaint she is ii» the way of salvation. For her whole life is in direct oppoHttoD to all those tenders and practioes^ which the Gospel has made necessary to salvation.

Ifyeu was to hear her say, that she had hved all her Ute tike Anne the prophetess, who departed not frorm the fsmpUy InU served God with faating) and prayen ittgkt and «{q^, you would look upon her as very exlraTagant ; antf yet Ibis' would be no greater an extravagance, than for- ber to say, that she had been ftriving (• tnter in at tke straighi gate, »r making any one doctrine of the Go^el, a rule (^ber life.

She may as well say, Ifaat she lived with our Saviour when he was upon eutb^M that she has lived in hoi- tatiiM of him, or mad^|pj|^ part of her care t9 live in such tempers, as he ^uRd of all those that wooM be his disciples. She may as- truly say, that she has ever; day washed tlie saint's feet, as that she has lived in Chris-- tian hunuUty, and poverty of spirit ; and as reasonably think, that she has taught a charity-school, as Aat she; has lived in works of-charitf. She har as moeh -reason to think, that she-has been a ceDtinel ia as acmy , as Uwt



DCTOtrr A»B> HOLT LIFE, »

she hss UvecT In watching and seH^enial. And it maj aa fairly be said, that she trred hy the bboor of her IiBDd^ as that«he had given all tHligtnee to make her call- ing and election sure.

And here it is well to be obserred, that the poor, Tain tnm of mind, the irrel^ion, the {oily and vamty of this whole life ef Flavin, is all owing' lo tlie manner of osing her estate. It ia this that has formed her eptrit, that hai given life to every idle temper, that has supported every tritling' pns^ion, and kept her fVom all thoughts of a pru- dent, n^eiijl, and devout life.

Whes ber oarenta died, she had no thought about her two hundred puunife a vear. but that she bad so much money to do what she would with, to spend upon herself, and purchase the pleasures and grotilicationB o^ all her passions.

And it ia this setting out, this false judgment, and indiscreet use of their fortune, that haa filled her whole Hfe with the same'indlscretion, and kept her from think' vag of what is right, and wise, and pious in every thing, else.

If yon have seen her delighted io plays and romances, in scandal and backbiting, easily Battered, and soon af- fronted ; if you have seen her devoted to pleasures and divereions, a slave to every passion in its turn, nice in every thing that concemcd her body or dress, careless of every thing that mi^t benefit her sonl, always want- ing some new entertainment, and ready for every happy mvehtion, in shew or dress. It was because she had pur- chased M these tempers with the yearly revenue of her fortune.

She might have been humble, aerions, devout, a lover- of good books, an admirer of prayer and retirement, rareful of her time, <tiligent in good works, full of charity and the love of God, hut that the imprudent use of her es- tate forced all the contrary tempers ojioo her.

And it was-no wonder that she should turn her timer her mind, her health and strength to tire aame uses that rtie turned her fortune. It is owing to her being wroi^ in so great an "article of life, that you can see nothing laxe, or reasimaUe, or pious in any other part of it



Google



9» A SO.10US CALL TO 1

Now tboilg^h the irregular triAing epirit of this chsrao ter beloaga, I hope, but to few people, jet maay ma; here leara some ingtrucliioi^ from it, and perhaps see something of their owd spirit in it

For as Fiavia seems to be oadmie by the uor^aBonable use of hei^forfone, so the lonness odmost people's virtoe, the ippcrfectioos of their piety, and thediaorders of their passions, is generally owing to their imprudent use and enjoymept of lawful and innocent things.

More people are kept from a true sense and state of re- ligion by a regular kind of sensaalily and ip'^iilirence, than by gross drunkeuness. More men live regardteos of the - great duties of piety, through too great a concern for worldly goods, than through direcl injustice.

This man would perhaps be devout, if he was not so great a'virtuoso. Another is deaf tct all the motives to piety, by indulging an idle, slothful teni^r.

Could you cure this man of his great curiosity and in- quisitive temper, or that of his false satisfaction and thirst after leaiwi;^, you need do no more to make them both become men of great piety.

If this woman would make fewer viiits, or that not be always (biking, they tmuld neither of them find it half so hard to be affected with religion.

For all these things are only little, when they- are compared to great sins ; and though they are little in that jrespect, yet they are great, as they are impediments, aod hindrances of a pious spirit.

For as consideration is the only eye of the soul, as the truths of religion can be seen by nothing else, so whatev- er raises a levity of mind, a Irifling spirit, renders the soul incapable of seeing, apprebendii^, and relishing the doc- trines of piety.

Would we therefore make a real progress in rehg^oo, we must not only abhor gross and notorious sins,, but we must regulate the innocent and lawful parts of our beha- viour, aad put the most common and allow.ed actions ol life voder the rules of discretion and piety.



iiyGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLT Uffe



Bow the wise and pioa* ve ofan e*tate, nattmiflf curietb ni'to' gKat pErfection id alt tbe virtue] of the ChriUiuk'lire ; repie-- MDted JD iKe chaniclei of Miranda.

ANY one pious regularity of any one part of our Efe, is of great aOvantage; not only on iti own accoaoty bat as it oees us to lir« by rule, and tbiak of the gorem- . nent of ourselves.

A man of business, that has brought one part of his af- lairj under certain ralea, b in a fair way to lake the same care of the rest..

So he that has brought any one part of tiis life under' tfie rules of religion, may thence be taught to extend the •aqie order and regularity into other parts of his life.

If any one is an^ friae to think his time too precioo* lo be disposed of by chance, and left to be devoured' by any thing that happens in his nray ,- if he lays him- ralf under a necessity of observing how every day goes throagh his hands, and obliges himself to a certain order oftiro^ in his business, his retirements, and devotions^ it is hardly to be imagined, how soon such a conduct would' refcrm, improve, and perfect the whole course of his- kfe.

He tliat once knows the value, and" reaps the ailvan- tage of a well-ordered time, ivlll not long be a stranger- tt'the value of any thing else that Is of any real concero;

A' role that relates even to the smallest part of our life,- is of great benefit to us, merely as it is a rule..

For, as the proverb saith. He that has bfgvn well, ha» half done : so he that has begun lo live by rule, has gone ■ great way towards the perfection of his own life..

By rure, must here be constantly understood; a rellg-

iou!i rule, obsc.»|^ upon a principle of duty to God. ^

For ifa manWRiuld oblige himself to be moderate in-

- bis meals, only in regard to his stomach, or atetain from-

* dunking, only to avoid tbe head-ach ; or be moderate im



U > SERIOUS CALL TO A

his sleep, throi^h fear of a lethaigy, he might b« eiact ID these rules, without heing at alt the hetter nan for Ihem.

But when he is moderate and regular io any of these things, onf of a sense of Chnstiaofldbriety, and self-denial, that he tany offer unto God a mo^e reasonable and holy life, then it is that the smallest rule of this kind, is nature ally, the begioaing of great piety.

For the smallest rule io these matter is of great bene- fit, as it teaches us some part of the goveronteot of our- selves, as it keeps up e teoderness of mind, asit presenta God often lo our thoughts, and brings a sense of religioa into the ordinarj- actions of our common life.

If a man, wheneTer he was io company, where any one swone, talked lewdly, or spoke evil of his ne^hbour, should make it a role to himself, either gently to reprove him, or if that was not proper, then \o leave the com- pany as decently as he could ; he would find, that this little rule, like a little leaven hid in a great quantity oi meal, would spread and extend itself through the whole form of his life.

If another should oblige himself to abstain on the Lord's day, from many innocent and lawful things, as travelling, vlailing, common conversation, and discours- ing upon worldly matters, as trade, news, and the like j if he should devote the day, hesides the public worship, to greater retirement, reading, devotion, instruction, and works of charity, though it may seem but a small thing, or a needless nicety, to require a man lo abstain from such things, as may be done without sin, yet whoever would try the benefit of so little n rule, would perhaps thereby find such a change made in his spirit, and such a t^te of piety raised in his mind, as he was an entire ■tranger to before.

It would be easy to shew in many other instances, how little and small matters are the first steps, and natural beginnings of great perfection.

But'th« two things, which of all others most want to be ^der a Strict rule, and which are the jcreatest blesslnga Mh to ourselves and others, when tbei^f^' rightly used, are our time, and our money. These lalenU are contiK- nal means and opportunities of doing gowl. i



DEVOOT ANB HOLT LIFE. K

He that is piously strict, and exact in the wise mnnage- nent of either of Ibese, cannot be long ignorant of (he rigtit use ol* the other. And he that is happy id the re- li^oiis care and disposal of them both, ie already ascend- ed seyeral steps upon the ladder of Christian perfection. Miranda, (the sister of Plavia) is a sober, reasonable Christian ; as soon as she was mistress of her time and fortune, it was her first thought how she might best fulfil every thing that God required of her in the use of them, and how sne.might make the best and happiest use of this ehort Mfe. She depends upon the trutli of nrhat our blessed Lord hath said, that there m but one thing need- July and therefore makes her whole tife^'^ut one continual labour afler it. She has but one reason for doing or not doii^, for liking or not liking any thing, and that is the will of God. She is not so weak as. to pretend to add, what is called the fine lady, to the true Christian; Mi« raada thinks too well to be taken with the sound of such silly words ; she has renounced the world, to follow Cbmtinthe exercise of humility, charity, devotion, ab- stinence, and heavenly affections; and that is Mi randans fine breeding.

While she was under her mother, she was forced (o h* genteel, to live in ceremony, to sit up late at nights, to be in the folly of every fashion, and always visiting on Sundays. To go patched, and loaded with a burden of finery to the holy sacrament ; to be in every polite conversation, to hear profaneness at the play-house, and wanton songs and tovs "intrigues at the opera, to dance at public places, that fops and rakes might admire the fineness of her shape, aed the beauty of her mo- tions. The remembraa^ of this way of life, makes tier exceedingly careful to atone for it, by a contrai^ 'behaviour.

Miranda does not divide her duty between God, her neighbour, and herself, but she considers all as due to Ctod, and so does every Q)ir>g in his name, and for his «ake. This makes her consider her fortune as the gift of God, tiiat is to be used as every thing is, that belongs to God, for tbej|||ise and reasonable ends of a CbriBtian and holy life. Her fortune therefore is divided betwixt ^ ^nelf^ and several olher poor people, and sh« has only



96 . A -SERIOUS CALL TO »

her part of relief from it She IhiDks it the saiae foil} to indulge henelfin needless, vain expenses, as to^ve to other people to apeqd in (he same waj. Therefore as she will not give a poor raao money to go 4o see a puppet- ehom, neither will she allow liorself ao; to sp^nd Id the same manner; thinking it very proper t(^ be as wise Jierself, aa she eipects poor men should be. For it is % folly and a crime in a poor man, Bays Miranda, to waste .what is given him, in foolish tnlies, whilst he wants meat, drink, and clothes. And is it less folly, or a less crime in loe to spend that money in silly diversions, which might be so much better spent in imitatron of the ^vise fgoodness, in woidts of kindness and charity towards n^ Tellow creatures, and fellow Christians 7 If a poor man's inwn necessities are a reason why he should not waste any of his money idly, surely the necessities of the poor, ■ the excellency of cbaiily, which is received a$ done to Christ himself, is a mnch greater reason why no on* .should ever waite any of his money. For if he does so, iie. does not only do hke the. poor man, only waste tjiat which he wants himself, but he wastes that which it wanted for (he most noble use, and which Christ himaelf is ready to jeceive at his hands. And if w« are ai^ry at a poor man, and look upon him ai a wretch, when he throws aw^ that which should buy his -own bread ; how jDust we a'^ear in the sight of God, if we make a wanton, idle use of that which w«uld buy bread and clothes for • the hungry and nalied brethren, who are as near and -dear to God as we are, and fellow heirs of the same state of future glory ? This is the spirit of Miranda, and Ibua she uses the gifls of God ; she is only one of a cer- ^ tain number of poor people, that are reheived out of her fortune, and she only diSera lirom tbetu in the blessedness of giving.

Excepting her victuals, she never spent ten pounds a year upon herself If you was to sep her, you would Lwonder what pobr body it was that was so aurprisinglj neat and clean. She has but one rule that she observes jo her dress, to he always clean and in ■ the cheapest ^Ahings. Every thing about her reseo^es th£ purily *^ her soul, and she is always clean withi^ because she jl always pure within. ^



II, Google



BiyOUT AND HOLT LITE. «7

"ZvBTj morning seea her earlj' at her prayers, fhe re- joices in Ihe beginning' of every day, because it begins all her pious rules ol" holy li.vmg, and brings the frcfh pleasure of repeating them. She aeeina to be as a guar- dian ange) to those that dwell about her, with her walch- ings and prayen blessing Ihe place where she dwells, and D^ing intercession with God for those that are nsleep.

Her devotions have had some intervab, and God hai heard seyeral of her private prayers, before the light is inSered to enter into her sister's rooms. Miranda does not know what it is to have a dull Jialf-day ; the returns of her hours of prayer, an^ her religiiuis exercises, come too often to let any considerable part of time lie heavy upon her hands.

When yon see her at work, you see the same wisdom that^orems all her other actions; she is either doing iomsthing that is necessary for herself or necessary for Dthcis, who want to be assisted: There is scarce a poor family in the neighbourhood, hut wears something or Dttier that has had the labour of her hands. Her wise 9nd pious jnmd, neither wants the .amusement, nor can bear with the folly of idle and impertinent work. She caD admit of do such folly as. this is in the day, because *he is to answer for all her actions at uighL When there is no niadom to be observed in the employment of her hauds, nhcn there is no useful or charitable work to be done, ftliranda will work no more. At her table she lives strictly by this rule of holy Scripture, Wbtihcr yt eat or drink, or tvhatsoever ye do, do all to the giflrt/ of ■God. This makes her begin and end every meal, as she begins and ends e.very day, with acts of devotion : she cats and drinks only for the sake of living, and with so regular an al>stinence, that every meal is an exercise of self-denial, and she humbles her body, every time that she is forced to /ced it If Miranda was to run a ' race for her life, she would submit to a diet that was proper for it. But as the race which is set before her, is a. race of boliaess, purity, and heavenly affection, which she is to finish in a corrupt, disordered body of earthly passion.'!, ^o ijsr every day diet has, only this one «nd, to make her body fitter for ibis spiritual pace. She (does Dot weigh her meal Id a pair of scales, but she



M A SERIOUS CALL TO A

weigia it in a mucli better balance ^_ so much as givea a proper strength to her body, and renders it able and willing to obey the soul, to join in psalma and prayenj and lit) up eyes and bands towards heaven nilh greater readiness,' so much is Miranda^s meal. So that Miranda will never have her eyes stvell with fatness, or pant under a heavy load of flesh, till she has chained her religion.

The holy Scriptures, especially of the New Testament, are her daily study ;' these she reads with A watchful attention, constantly casting an eye upon herself, and trying herself by every doctrine that is there. When ■he has the New Testament in her hand, she supposes herself at (be feet of our Saviour and his apostles, and makes every thing that she learns of them, so many laws •f her life. She receives their sacred words with as much attention, and reverence, as if she saw their persons, and knew that they were just come from heaven, on purpose to leach her the way that leads to it.

She thinks, that the trying llerself every day by the doctrines of Scripture,- ia the only possible way to b« ready for her trial at the last day. She ia sometimei afraid that she lays out too much money in books, be- cause she cannot forbear buying all practical boohs of any note ; especially such as enter into the heart of re- ligion, and describe the inward holiness of the Christian life. But of all human writings, the Uves of pious per- sons, of eminent saints, are her greatest delight. In these she searches as for hidden treasure, hoping to find some secret of holy hving, some uncommon degree of piety, which she may make her own.. By this means iMiranda has her bead and heart stared with all the prin- ciples of wisdbm and holiness ; she is so full of the one main business of life, that she finds it d^cult to converse upon any other subject; and if you are in her company, when she thinks proper to talk, you must be made wiser and better, whether you will or no.

To relate hi^ charity, would be to relate the history of every day Ibr twenty years ; for so long has all her fortune been spent that way. She has set up near twenty poor trad'esmen who had failed in their business, and sared as many from failing. She has educated several



DfiVOUT AHD HOLY UFt M

poor children, that were picked up in the streets, and put them in a way of an honest emphjyment. As soon as any laboarer ia confined at home with nckness, she sends turn, till he recoren, twice the value of hia wt^es, that he may have one part to give to his I'amil}', as nsna), and the other to provide things coovenient for liis sick- ness.

If a family seems too lar^ to he supported by the labour of those that can work in it, she pays their rent, and gives them something yearly towards their clothing. By this means there are many poor families that live in a comfortable manner, and are from year to year blessing her in their prayers.

If there is any poor man or woman, that is more than , ordinarily wicked and reprobate, Miranda has her eye upon them, she watches their time of need and adversity : and if she can discover that tbej are in any great straits or affliction, she gives them speedy relief. She has thii care for this sort of people, because she once saved a very profligate person from being carried to prison, who immediately became a true penitent.

There is nothing in the, character of Miranda more to be adniired, than this temper. For this tenderness of af- fection towards the most abandoned sinners, ia the high- est instance of a divine and godlike soul.

Miranda once passed by a hojise, where the man and his wife were cursing and sweariag at one another in a most ,dreadful manner, and three children crying about them; this sight so much affected her compasaiooate mind, that she went the nest day, and bought the three children, that they ought not he ruined by living with such wicked parents; they now live with Miranda, are blessed with her care and prayers, and all the good works which she can do for them. They hear her talk, Ihey see her live, they join with her in psalms and prayers.-^ The eldest of them has already converted his parents from fheir wicked life, and shews a turn of mind so re- markably pious, that Miranda intends him for holy or- ders ; that being thus saved himself, he may be zealous in the salvation ofsonls, and do toother miserable objects, as she has done to him.

Miranda is a constant relief ts poor people in tbeii-



100 1 SI3tI0US CALL TO A

misfortunes aoA accideots ; there are sometimes little misfortunes that happen to them, which of themselves they could never be able to orercome. The death of a «ow, or a horse, or some little robbery, would keep them in distress all their lives. She does not suffer them to grieve under such accidents as these. She immediately gives them the full value of their loss, and makes use of it as a means of raising their minds toward? God. . -She has a great tenderness for old [ieople that are growd past their labour. The parish allowance to such people, is very seldom a coqifortable maintenance. For this reason, they are the constant objects of her care ; the adds so much to tbeir allowance, as somewhat ex- ceeds the wages they got when they were young. This she does to comlbrt the infirmities of their age, that being free from trouble and distress they may serve God in peace and tranquillity of mind. She has generally a large number of this kind, who bj her charities and fx- hof tations to holiness, spend their last days in great pie^ and deivotion.

Miranda never wants compassion, even to common beggars; especially towards those that are old or sick» «r full of sores, that want eyes or limbs. She hears their complaints with tenderness, gives them some proof «f her kindness, and never rejects them with hard, or reproachful language, for fear of adding aSliction to her fet low-creatures.

If a poor traveller tells her, that he has neither ■trength, nor food, nor money left, she never bids him go to the place from whence he came, or tells him, that she cannot relieve him, because he may be a cheat, or she does not know him ; but she relieves him for that reason, because he is a alrang-er, and unknown to her. — For it is the mo^t noble part of charily, to be kind and tender to those whom we never saw before, and perhaps never may see again in this life. / wiu a stranger and ye took me in, saith our blessed Saviour; but who can perlbrm this duty, that will not relieve persons that ar^ unknown to him ?

Miraoda considers, that Lazarus was a common beg- gar, thai be was the care of angels, and carried into Abiuhina^B iDoaoju. Sh4 considers that ear blessed Sa.-



OTTOUT AMD HOLT LIFE. 101

Tionr, ani] his apostlea, were kiad to beggars ; that they spoke comfortably to them, healed their diaeaaes, and restored eyes asd limbs to the lame and btiDd. That Peter eaid to the beggar tha| wanted an alms for him, Stiver and gold have I none, Init tueh oj / havt give I thee ; M the name of Jetut Chritt of J^azamh, rite up and walk, Uiranda, therefore, nerer treats beggars with disregwd and aversion, but she imitates the kiodaess of our Sevionr and his apostles towards them ; and though she cannot, like tbem, work miracles for their relief, yet she relieves th«m with that power that she hath ; and may say with the apostle, Such at I have give 1 thee, in the name ofJe- fM Chritt.

It may be, says Miranda, that I may of^en give to those who do not deserve it, or who will make an ill use of my ahns. Bat what then? Is not this the very method of divine goodness? Does not God make hit mn to rite o* the eviL, <md on the good ? Is not this the veiy goodness that is recommeDded to us in Scripture, that by imitating of it, w^ may be children of our Father who is in hettTeD,'w^ lendelh rain on the just, andontheftn- jutt ? And shall 1 withhold a little money or food, from my fellow-crealnre, for fear he should not be good enough to receive rt of me? Do I beg of God to deal with me, not according to my merit, but according to his own great goodness; and.sl^II I be so absurd, as to withhold my charity from ^ poor brother, because he may per- haps not deserve it ? Shall I use a measure towards him, which I pray God never to use tov

Besides, where has Ihe Scriptur or measure of charity % On the c> say. If thy enemy hunger, fftd hitn

mow this plainly teaches us, IhR ; is to be no mie of our charity, but that we are to do acts of kindness to those that least of all deserve it. For if I am to love and to do good to my worst enemies; if I am to he charitable to thi?m, notwithstanding all their spite and malice, surely merit is no measure of charity. If 1 am not to wiihbolit my charity from such bad peo- ple, and who are at the same time enemies, surely 1 aln 9*



103 A SERlOUS CALL TO A

not to deay alms to poor beggars, whom I neltber knoir to be bad people, nor any way mj enemiea.

You will perhaps say, that by this means I encourage people to be be^ars. But the same thoughtless objec- tion may be mude against all kinds of charities, fer they may encourage people to depend upon them. The same jnKj be said against foi^ving our enemies, for it ntajr encourage people to do us hurt. The same may be said . ' even against the goodness of God, that by pouring his blessing on the evil and on the good, on the just, and od the uqjuBt, evil and unjust men are encouraged in their wicked nays. The same may be said against clothing the naked, or giving medicines to the sick, for that may encourage people to neglect themselves, and be careless of Iheir health. But nheo the lore of God dwelleth in you ; when it has enlarged joor heart, and filled you With bowels of mercy and compassion, you. will make no more such objections as these.

When you are at any time turning away the poor, the -eld, the sick and helpless traveller, the lame or the blind, ask yourself this question ; Do I sincerely wish these poor creatures may be as happy as Lazarus, who wa» carried by angels into Abraham's bosom ? Do I sincerely desire that God would make them fell«w-heirs with me in eternal 'glory ? Now If you search into your soul, yew will fii]d that there is none of these motions' there, that you are wishing ngthing of this. For it is impossible f^r any one heartily to wish a poor creature lo great a hap- have a heart so give him a small alms. ^s Miranda, as far as I can, ' 1 give to to God to foiy^ve all ; and I cannot > those, ncJiom 1 pray God to bless, e partakers of eternal glory ; but an ! degree ol love to such, as 1 hop^, will be the objects of the infinite love of dod. And i^ as our Saviour has assured us, it be mor* ilated to ght than to recehe, we ought to-look upon those that ask our alms, as so many fnends and benefactoi«, that ceme to d« as a greater good than they can receive, that come'to mt- filt our virtue, to be witnesses of our charity, (o be monu- ments of our love, to he our advocates with God, to b^ to us in Chr&t's stead, to appear for he at the day of



DEVOUT ANB HOLT Lint tOt

judgment, and lo help us to a blessedaesa greater than our alms can bestow on then).

Thifl ia the spirit, and this ia the life of the devout Mi- randa ; and if she Uvea ten years loager,*ahe will have ■pent sixty thousand pounda in charity, for that which she illows herself, may fairly be reckoned amongst her alma.

Whea she dies, ahe must shine amongst apostles, and £■ saints, and martyrs, ahe must stand amongst the first seiwjllj''-. rants of God, and be glorious amongst those that biij^* fought the good fight, and finished tlwir couise withjF



Contamlng Mine reflections on the life of Miranda, Mid thewiDs bow it may and ought to be iiliilated bj all her lei.

NOW this life of Miranda, which I heartily recom- mend to the imitation of her aei, however contrary it may aeem to the way aad fashion of the world, is yet initable to the true spirit, and founded upon the plainest doctrines of Christianity.

To Jive as she does, ia as truly suitable to the Gospel ofChriat, aa to ije baptized or receive the sacrament.

Her spirit ia that which animated the aainfs of former ages; and it is because they lived as ,now celebrate their memories, aDd p: esitmples.

There is nothing that is whimsical Bonable in her character; but evei scribed, is a right and proper instance piety.

It is as easy to shew, that it is whimsical to go to chnrch, or to aay one's prayers, as that it is whimsical to observe any of these rules of life. For all Minrada'a roles of living unto God, of spending her lime and for- tune, of eating, working, dressing and conversing, ar« aa substantial parts of a ceasonable and holy life, as d«[t TotioD and prayer.

Civ.MnGooglc



104 A ^moUS CALL TO A

For there is DOthiog to be said for the wkdom of S*- bhety, the wiulom of devotion, the wisdom of charity^ or the nisdom of hlimilhy, but what is as good an argu- ment for the wise and reattonabte use of apparel.

Neither can any Ibing be said against the folly of lux- ury, t|)e folly of sensuality, the folly of extravagance, the foily of prodigal iiy, the folly of amhition, of idleness, or indulgence, but what must be said against the foily of jlresa. For religion ig as deeply concerned in the one as tbjhe other.

ffyou may he Tain in one thing, you may be vain is evei^ thibg; for ooe kind of vanity only differs from< another, as one kind of intemperance differs from another. If you a{Knd your fortime inihe needless, vain finery of dress, you cannot condemn prodigahty, or extrava- ^nce, or luxury, without con<lemmng yourself.

If you fancy that it is your only folly, and that there- fore there can fae no great matter in it ; you are like thoacf that think they are only guilty of the folly of covetous- Bcse, or the folly of ambition. S'dw though some peo- ple may live so plausible a life, as to appear chai^eable with no other fault, than that of covetousness or ambi- tion ; yet the case is not as it appeare, for covetousoese or ambition cannot subsist in a heart that ia in other respects rightly dPvoled to God.

In like manner, though some people may spend most that they have in needless eipenniTe ornaments of dress, and yet seem to be in every other respect truly pious, ilse ; for it is as impossible for a miocl e of religion, to he vain in the use of in in the use of alms, or d^votionsi-^ au of this from your own reflections, L some eminent saint, as for instance, in Mary was sent into the world, to jf trial for a few years, and that you were going to her, to be edi£ed by her great piety ; wouM yon expect to find her dressed out and adorned in fine and expensire clothes ? No: you. would know in your own mind, that it was as inipossible, as to find her learn- ing to Uaiice. Do but add saini, or holy, to any person, «ither man or woman, and your own mind tells yod imr tnediately, that such ft character cannot admit of ihf vott-



DEVOUT AM) HOLY LIFE. H»

i(y of fine apparel. A sabt geoteellj dressed, is as great nonsense, as an apostle' m an embroidered suil ; every one 'a own natural sense coovinces him of the inconsistency of these ihings. ■ .. '"

Now what is the reaion, that when you think of a saint or eminent servant of God, you cannot adoiit of the vanity of apparel? Is it not because it is inconsistent with such a right state of heart, such true and exalted piely t And is not this therefore a demonstration, that where such vanity is admitted, there a right slate of heart, true and exalted piety must needs be w:mted 7 For as certainly as the holy Virgin Mary could not iiv dulge herself, or conform to the vanity of the world in dress and figure ; so certain is it, that none can indulge themselves in this vanity, hut those who want her piety of heart ; and consequently it must be owned, that aft needless end expensive finery of dress, is the effect of a disordered heart, that is not governed by the true ^irit of rtiligioB.

Covetousness is'not a crime, because there is any harnr in gold or silver, but because it supposes a foolish and an reasonable state of mind, that is fallen from its true good and sunk into such a poor and wretched satisfaction.

In like meinner, the expensive finery of dress, is not a

crime, because there is any thing good ■' ■ — '-'■-"-

tut because the expensive ornaments a foolish and unreasonable state of h« from right notions of human nature, t of clothing, and turns the neceaaitieB t instances of pride and folly.

AH the world agree un condemning Now what is the reason of it ? Is it be thing sinful in their particular dress, new ? No : but it is because all pe( shews the stale of a man's mind, and t] for so ridiculous an outside to have i reMMabie, or good within. And indei of^iat.piely, is as much nonsense, as ard of great courage. So that all th owning, that the use 3n3 manner of cl( the state of a man's mind, and conseqi thin^ highly essential to reli^on. But



IM A SERIOUS CALL TO A

well coQiidered, that as it is not ooly the sot that i> soil- ty of intempeniace, but every one that traasgresses the right and religious measures of eating and driaking ; eo it should be coDsidered, th»t i^u not only the fop tUat ia guilty of the vanity and abKe of dress^ but every one that departs from the reasonable end reli^ous ends o clothing.

As therefore every ailment against sottishness, is aa good an argument against nil kinds of intemperance ; so every argument against the vanity of fops, is as good an argument against all vanity and abuse of dress. For they are all of the same kind, and only differ, as one degree of intemperance may differ from another. She that only paints a little, may as justly accuse another, because she paints a great deal, as she that uses but a common finery of dress, accuses anolber that is evessive in lier finery.

For as in the matter of temperance, there is no rule but the sobriety that is vccording to the doctrines and spirit of our religion: so in the matter of apparel, there is no rule to be observed, but such a rigbt use of clothes, as is strictly according to the doctrines and spirit of our religion. To pretend to make the way of the worl^ onr measure in these things, is as weak and absurd, as to biake the way of the world the measure of our sobriety, abstinence, or humility. It is a pretence Ibat is exceed- ingly absurd in the mouths of Christians, who are to be so lar from conforming to the fashions of this life, that to have overcome .the world, is made an essential mark of Christianity.

This therefore is the way that you are to judge of the crime of vain apparel : you are to consider it as an of- fence against the proper use of clothes, as covetousness ia an offence against the proper use of money ; yon are to consider it as an indulgence of proud and unreasonable tempers, as an offence against the humility and sobriety of the Christian spirit; you are to coDsider it as «■, of- fence against allthose doctrines that require you t^do all to the glory of God, that require you to make a right use of your talents; you are to consider it as an offence

It all those texts of Scripture, that command you ^four neijrbbonr as yourself, to feed the tiw^ryi



BEVOUT ANB ROLT UFp. IW

to clothe the naked, and do all woriis ofcharitj' that you are able ; so that you must not deceive yousell^ nith laying, where can he the harm of clothes? for the covet- ous vatta might as well st^, wjiere can he' the harm of gold or silver? but you fcuft consider, that itis a ?reat deal of harm to want that wise, and reasonable, andliaia- ble state of heart, which is according to the spirit of religion, and whicb no one can have in the manDer that be ought to have it, wbo indulges himself either in tbe vamtyof dress, or the desire of riches.

There is therefore nothing right in the use of clotbes, or in the use of any ihing else in tbe world, but the plainness and simplicity of the Gospel. Every otber use of things (however polite and fashionable in the world) distracts and disorders the heart, and is inconsistent with that inward state of piety, that purity of heart, that wis- dom of mind, and re^larity of affectioD, which Christian- i^ requireth. '

if you would be a ^ood Christian, there is but one way; you must live wholly unto God, you must live accordii^ to tbe ttisdom that comes from God ; yon must act ac-, cording to the right judgments of tbe nature and value of tliiDgB ; you must live in tbe exercise of holy and heavenly aflections, and use all the gifts of God to bis praise and glory.

Some persons perhaps, who admire the purity and perfection of this life of Miranda, may say, bow can it b« proposed as a common example ? How can we wh» ara married, or we wbo are under the direction of our pai- eols, imitate such a life.

It is answered, just as you may imitate the life of our blessed Saviour and his apostles. The circumstances of oar Saviour's life, and the sftite and condition of his apos- tles, was more different from yours than that of Miranda's is; and yet their life, the purity and perfection of their behaviour, is Ihe common example that is proposed to all

Sr spirit therefore, their piety, their love (rf ou are to imitate, and not the particular fonq

Act- under God as they did, direct your common ac- ticDi to that end which they did, glo^fy your projit"



•^^^L



IW A SERIOUS CALL TO A

■tate with luch lore of God, such charity to your neigh- ]>our, such humility and aelf-denial, iis they did ; and theo, though you are only teaching your own children, ■and St. Pag! is converting whole nations, yet you are fol- lowing hi! steps, and acting after his examjile.

Do not tbink therefore, that you cannot or need not he hke Miranda, because you are not in her state of hfe; for as the same spirit ajid temper would have made Mi> raoda a saint, though she had been forced to labour for a maintenance, so if you will but aspire after her spirit and temper, every form, end condition of life will furnish you with sufficient melins of employing it.

Miranda is what she is, because she does every thin^ in the naote, and with regard to her duly to God ; and when you do the same, you will be exactly Uke her, though yon are never so different trom her in the out- ward state of ypur life.

You are married, you say; therefore you have not your time aad fortune in your power as she has.

It js very true ; and therefore you cannot spend so .much time^Aor so much monej, in the manner that sh^ does. 's^

But now Miranda's .perfection' does not consist in this, ^hat she spends so nuich lime, or so much money in such a manner, but that she" inartful to make the best use of all that time, nnd all that^oi^une, which God has put Into her hands. Do you therefore make the best use of all that lime and money which is in your disposal, aqd then .you are like Miranda.

If she has two hundred po\mds a year, and you have .only two mites, have you noi the more reason to be ez- ceeding eiact in .the wisest use of it? If she has a deal .of time, and .you have hot a little, ought you not to be the inore watchfiil and circumspect, lest that little should be Josl7

You say if you was to imitate the cleanly plainnea and cheapness of her dress, you should offend yoiu l>aods. -^

■ First, Be very sure that this is true, befor .an %scuse.

Secondly, If your husbands d^o "really require you f*

itch your faces^ to expose your breasts naked, and tp h«



DEVOUT AlTD HOLT LIFE. «g

fee and espflnsive io aU yoar apparel, then lake ftese

two resolutions ; - .

First, to forbear from aU this, as soon as yow hns- •ands will permit you.

Secondly, lo use your utmost endeaTors tttrecortmend

yourselves to their affect, ons by such soliJ yirtnes as

may correct the vanity oi Aeir ftiinds, and teach them to

love you foreiich qualities, as will make you am.ablp in

. Ilie sight ofGed and his holy ang«Js.

As lo this doctrine concerning the plainness and maj- esty of dress, it may perh:.ps be thought by some to b« •ufficienlly conrutod by asking, whether all persow are . to be clothed in the same manner?

These qneslioos are generally put by those, who had rather perplex the plainest truths, than be oblij^to fol- low tjiem. ' °

tet it be supposed, that I had recommended on noi- Tersal plainness of diet. Is it not a thing sulficiently ret- sonable to be tinirenialty recommended 1 But would it (hence follow, that the nobletban aud the labnure* were to live upon the same food?

Suppose [ had pressed an universal temperance ; does not r^sligjon enough just.fy such a dnctrme ? But would It therefore foUovr, that all people were to tirink the «me liquon, and id Jhe samg (juanlity?

In like manner,' though piairineas and sobriety of dresB is recommended lo all, yet it does by no means follow that all are to be clothed in the same manner. '

Now what is the particular rule with regard to tem- perance ? How shall particniar persons, that use di/Ter- ent liquors, and in di^erent quantities, preserve their temperance ?

Is net this the rule? Are they not to guard against in- dalgence, to make their use of liquors a matter of con- science, and allow of no refreshments, but such as are con-istenl with the striclc9t_ rules of Christian sobriety ? Jjftw transfer this rule to the matter' of apparel, and alflpi^^ns about it are answered. L

rat eftry one but guard against the vaDity of dress! let them but make their use of clothes a matter of con- •cienee, let them buf Hesire to make the beet use of their money, and then every one has a rule that is sufficient 10 "^



llflt A SffltlOUS CALL TO A

to dir^t them in every slate of life. This rule will so more IcPthe great be vaiQ in their dress, thaa intempe- rate in their liquors ; asd yet will leave it aa lanful to have soma ditfurence io their (Irttjk-

But now will >ou eay, that ^u maj use the finest, nchest wine^ when and as you please, that you may be as espeosive ia them as Joxx have a mjad, because difer- «nt liquors are allowed? If aot, how caa it be said, that you may use clothes as you please, and wear the richest thii^ you can get, because the bare difference of clothes ulatilfull

^Dr as the lawfulness of different liquors-leaves do room, nor any excuse, for the smallest degre© of intem- perance in drinking, so the lawfulness of differeat appajy •1 leaves no room, nor any excuse, for the smallest de- free of vanity in dress.

To ask what is vanity in dress, is no more a puzzlii^ question, than to ask, what is intemperance in drinking. And though religion does not here slate the particular measuge for all iodiviJuals, yet it gives such general rules as are a suflicjent direction in every stale oi life.

He that lets religion teach him, that the end of drink- ing is only so far to refresh our spirits as to keep us ia ' good health, and make soul and body fitter for all the offices of a holy and pious life, and that he is to desire to- glorify God by aright use of this liberty, will alwa^ know what intemperance is, in his particular state.

So he that lets reUginn teach him, that the end of alothing is only to hide o<ir shame and nakedness, and to ■ecure our bodies from the injuries of weather, and that he is to desire to glorify God by a sober and wise use of this necessity, will always know what vanity of dress is, in his particular state.

And he that thinks it a needless nicety, to talk of the religious use of apparel, has as much reason to think it a needless nicety, to talk of the raligious use of liquors. For luxury and indulgence in dress, is as grerd an ahwe,

S luxury and indulgence in ealing and driokdQff.^4|^Mil ;re is no avoiding eithfrr of them, but by maiiin^n- ligion the strict measure of our allowance in both cases. A^d there is notluog in rehgioa ta ^cite a aw to tbb



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIM:, _ VUI

|»foii3 exactness in one case, bat what i« as good a motive to the same exactness in the other. ' * •

Farther, as all things thiit nre tawfnl, are not therefore expofiient; so there are some things lawful in the use of liquors and apparel, which by abstaining from them for pions ends, may be made menns Of great perfection.

Thus lor instance, if a man should deny hinM^eir each use of liquors as is lawfal'; if he should refrain from such expense in hia drink as might be allowed without cm ; if he should do this, not only for the sake of a more pioiis self-denial, but that he mi^bt be able to relieve and re- fresh the helpless, poor and aiclc.

If another should abstain from the use of that which is lawful in dress; if he should b^ more frugal and mean in his habit, than the necessities of religion abeolutely require ; if be should do this not only as a means of a belter humility, but that he may be more able to clothe other people ; these persons might be said to do that ■ which was highly suitable to the true spirit, though not ■ absolutely required by the letter of the law of Christ.

For if those who give a cup of cold water to a disciple

, ofChrist, shall not l^e their r<i»ard, how dear must they

be lo Christ, who often fjive (hi^nipelves water, that Ibey

maybe able to give wine to the sick and lacgtiishing

members of Christ's body!

But to return. All thnt has been here said to married women, may serve for the same instruction to snch ac are still under the direction oftheir parents.

Noiv though the obedience which is due to parents does not oblige th.-^m to carry their virtues any highet than their parents requii'e Ihem ; yet their obedience re- quires them to submit to their direction in all things not' contrary to the laws of God.

If, therefore, yoJir parents require you to live more ia the fashion and conversation of the world, or to be more expensive in your dress and person, or to dispose of your

» otherwise than suits with your desire* afler f^ater ection, you must submit, and bear it as your cwss, ' till you are at liberty to follow the higher counsels of Chnst, aniJ have it in your power to choose the beat wayt •f raising your virtue to its greatest height.

Kow altbou^ whilst you are in this state, you may ba



Ilf A SERIOUS CALL TO A

abUged to foregif some means of improvi^yoHriirfajB^ y^t db^e are some others to be found is it, thftt are not to be had in a life of more liberty.

For if IB this Btate, where obedience is so great a vir- tue, joir comply in all things lawful, out of « pious, ten- der sense oftluty ; then thote things which yeu thus per- ibrm, are, instead of being hindrances of your virtue^ turned into meaoa of improving il.

What you lose by beiag reslrnined from euch thingd, as you would choose to obBerre, you gain by diat excel- ient virtue of obedience, Id huiebly complyiDg ngainst yoar temper.

Now what is here granted, is only ia thingi Inwliil ; • and therefore the diversions of our English stage is here excepted ; being eUewhcre proved, aa I think, to be ab- solutely unlaivful.

Thus much to shew, how persons wider the direc- tion of others, mny imitate the wise and pious life of Mi-

but«s for those who nj-e altogether in their own hands, if the liberty of llieir states make them, covet the hest giffe, if it carries them to choose the most excellent ways, . if (hey, having all in their own pow^r, should turn the whole form of their life into a regular esercise of the high._st virtues, happy are they who have so learn- ed Christ i

All persons cannot receive ttii* saying- They that ore ready to receive it, let them receive it, and bless that spirit of God which has put such good motions into their hearts.

God may be served and glorified in every state of life. But as there are some states of life more desirable tban others, that more purify our nalurts, that' more improve our virtues, and dedicate us unto God in a higher man- ner ; so those who are at liberty to choose for Ihena- lelves^ seem to be called by God to be more eminently devoted to hii service.

#Ever since Ihe beginning of Chrislianily, there*Sas been two orders or ranks of people amoi^t good Chrii- tians.

The one, that feared and served IBod la the commod offices of a secular worldly life. 9



"Therefore, «t;th he, there hath been iostitiiled i i church of Unrist, two wajv, or manners o



DEVOUT AND HOLT LrTE. «3

The. other, renouncing the common buuness and com- mon enjoyment' of life, a^ r.ches, mafrmge, honours, and pleasures, devoted themselves to votuataTY poverty,, Vir- ginia, devotion, and retirement, that by this means thej might live wholly unto God m the daily esercise of a di- vine anil heavenly life.

This testimony 1 have from the famous ecc)esia?tical historian, Eusebius, wlio lived at the time of the first gen- eral conncif, when the faith of our Nicene creed was established, when tbe church was in its greatest glory and purity, when its bishops were so many holy fathera "" ' n^nent saints,

fore, flfith hi I of Christ, t ,

B r<iised_ above the ordinary state of nature, and ways of living, rejects wedlock, possessions, BO'I worldly gooils, anil being wholly separate and re- moved from the ordmnry conversation of common hfe, is appropriated and devoted solely to tbc worship and service of God, through an exceeding degree of heavenly

"They who are of this order of people, seem dead to the life of this world, and having their bodies only upon earth, are in Iheir m,iiJs and contemplations diyetling in heaven. Prom whi^nce, likt; m^ny heavenly inhabitants, they look down upon human life, making intercessiont KiJ oblations to Almiiithty God for the whole race of mankind. And this not with the blood of beasts, or the fat, or smoke, and burning of bod.es, but with the highest * eiercises of tru<; piely, with cleansed anil purified hearts^ aail iVLth an wholt form of life strictly devoted to virtue. These are their sacrJice?, vhich they continually offering unto God, implore his mer^ and favour for themselves, ■ad their feilow-cruatures.

'^ Christianity receives this aa the perfect manner of life.

" The other is of j lower form, and suiting itself more tothe coadiLioo of hnm.in nature, admits of chaste weH- lock, aud care of children and family, of trade and busi- . ness, and goes through all llie employments of life under a sense of piety, aA fear of God.

'■ Now they 4^0 have chosen this manner of life, have 10*



lU A SEEtoUS CALL TO A

their set times for retirement and spiritual exercises, m>J parbcular d;iys are set apart for their hearing and learn- ing llie word of (Jod. And tliis order of people are Gon»dered, as in the second state of piety." Euieb. Detii. Evan, lib, 1. cup. 8-

Thus this learned historian.

If, iherefore, peraons of either sex, moved with the life of Miranda, and desirous oL perfection, sliould unite themselves into little societies, professing voluntary pov- erty, virfj-'iiiity, retirement and devotion, living upon bare necessaries, thnt some might be relieved by their charities, and all be blcssod with their prayers, and bene- fited by their example : or if for want of this, they should practise the same, manner of life, in as4lgh a degree as they could by themjelvSs ; such persons would be so far from being chargeable with any superstition, or blind de- Totion, that they might be justly said to restore that piety, which was the boast and glory of the church, when its greatest saints wore alive.

Now as this learned historian observes, that it was an exceeding great d^ree of heavenly love, that carried thaee persons so much above the common ways of life, to such an eminent stale of hoiinevs; so it is not to b(> wondered at, that the religion of Jesus Christ t'houliT fill the hearts of many ChrisLaos with this high degree of love.

Tor a rel^ion that opens such a scene of glory, that discovers things so infinitely above all the world, that >o triumphs over death, that assures us of such 'mansions of bliss, where we shall so soon be as the ai^els of tjod' in heaven; what wonder is it, if such a religion, such truths and expectations, should in some holy souls, de- stroy all earthly desires, an^make the ardent love of ' heavenly things, be the one continual passion of their hearts ?

If the religion of Christians is founded upon the ini- /mite humiliation, the cruel mockings and acou'rgings, Qte prodigious sufferings, the poor, -persecuted life, and ' painful death of a crucified Son of God; what wonder ■is il, if many humble adorers of this profound mystery, many affectionate lovers of a crucifi^ Lord, should re- nounce their share of worldly pleaidWl^ad give theOr'



nEvoxrr and holt ltwl - v»

wires tip to a coBtiBual coarae 6t mortificatieii, xnd sell* deoial : that thua suffering witb Christ here, they may re^ with him hereafter 1

n* truth itself hath assured lis, that then it but one thing needfal, what wonder is it, that there should be some amongst Christiaus so full of faith, as to believe this in the bighest Rense of the words, and to desire such a sepa- ration from the world, thattheir care aad attentioD to the Mie thing needful ma; not be interrupted i

If our blessed Lord halh said, If thou wiU be peifeel, go fad tell that ikou halt, and giee to the poor, and thou ihatt have treasure in heaven: and come and folUtw me: what wonder Is it, that tberft should be antoiigsl Chris- tians, some sucft zealous followers of Christ, ^ intent upon heavenly treasure, so desirous of perfection, that they should renounce the enjovm.'iit of their estates, choose a voUintaiy poverty, and reheve all the poor that fliey are able t

If the chosen vessel, St. Paul, bath said, He that ti (M> married careth for the things that belong to the Lord, hov ht luay please the Lord ; and tluU titereit ihis differtnee also httineen a wife and a virgin ; the ■aamarried woman CiUleth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit : what wonder is it, If the purity ami perfectioa of the virgr^n state, hath been the praise and glory of the church in its first and purestjtf^es i

That there hath always been some so desirous of pleasing God, so zealous after every degree of pur.ty and perfection, so glad of every mi^ans of improving theif virtue, that they have reooimced the comtnris and enjoyments of wedlock, to trim their lamps, to purify tbeir souls, ^md wait upon God in a state of perpetual ; tirgioity. •*

And if now in these our days, we want examples of these several degrees of perfection ; if neither clei^y not laity are enough of this spirit; if we are so tar departed from it, that a man seems, like St. Paul at Athens, a setter forth of strange doctrines, when he recommends sett-de- nial, renunciation of the world, regular devotion, retir»- ment, virginity, and voluntary poverty, it is because we ' arc fallen into mi ^c, where the love not only of many, Vat of most, is ^ffil cold.



in»ooe CALL ro ,a

ttle appenl to sAtiqnitf, and Qnoted 'Scripture, to support some uDcom- : lir« ofMirandn; and to shew, that loly liTin^, her devotioii, Helf-deoia), world, her chanty, yirgin.^, and -e fnnnded :n the sublimest couosela- 9tlp!<, Kqitabte to the bigfi eip^ta- troper itntances oi'a heavenly tore, the greatest saints of the best and

hear, let him hear.



le foregoing chapters gone through stances of Christian devotion, and larts of our common hfe, our em- g and gifts of ibrtune, are all to be plable unto God, by a wise' and i-e- thina;, and by direcdr^ our aclinna ids as are suitable to the bouoiir aad

that this regularity of devotion, this fo, this rei.jious use of every thing :votion that is the duty of all orden

I learned education, and taken his ■slty ; be cam« from thence, that he ny riile^f life. He takes no em- ■

nor enter? into any business, be- ivery employment or business, calla t performance and dischai^e of its n he is grave, he will tell you that holy orders, because he looks upon

requires great holiness of life, and his temper.to be so good. He will ver intends to'^rry, because be If to t4at regulam^ oi Me', and



,A



DEVOtS" AND HOLT UPE. l*J

p)oA behaTioar, wBch he takes to be the iuty ot thHc that are at the head of a family. -He retiised to be god> &tber to his aephew, because be will have do iruit of ■nykhid toaaswerfor. "»

. Fulvius thinks that he is conacleatibus in this ceoducl, ■nd is thereftwe content with the most idle, imperUneot tod careless life.

He haa no religicw, no deTOtitm, no pretences tu piely. He L?e9 by no rales, and think* ail is very well, because he is neither a priest nor a father, aor a guardian^ nor has my employmp.nt or femlly to look after.

But Fuivju", you are a rational creature, and as such, are -as much obli^d lo live according to reason and order, u a priest is obliged to altendat the aliar, or a );uardiaB to be faithful to his trust; if yon live conlmry lo renson, jou dwi't commit t sokiII crime, yoa don't break a small tni^t; butyoa break the law of your nature, you rebel against God who gave yon that nature, and put yoiKself amongst those whom the God of reason and oriler will punish as apo.itates and deserters.

Though you have no employmeiJt, yet as you are baptized into the profession of Christ's religien,.you are as much obliged to live according to the holiness of the Ciiriniau spirit, and perform all the promises made st your baptism, as any roan is obliged to be honest and faithful in Jiis calling. ' If you abuse this great callings joo are not false in a small matter, but you abuse (h* preciona blood of Christ ; you crucify the Son of God ■fresh ; yon neglect the highest instances of divine good- ness; you dii^race the church of God; you blemisb the body of Christ ; you abuse the means of grace, and the promiies of glory ; and it wtU be more tolerable for Tyre aod Sidon in the day nfjudgihettt than for you.

It is therelbre great folly, for any one to think him- lelf at liberty lo live as he pleases, because he is not in •uch.a state of life as some others are; for if there is any thit^ dreadful in the abuse of any trust ; if iher* is any thing to be feared for the neglect of any caliii^ there is nothing more to be feared thiin the wrong use of our reason, nor any thing more to be dreaded, than the neglect of our Ch^ian oalling, which is not to serve ftie UtUe uses <^ a short kf^ but to red«ein wub wit»



tU A SERIOUS dALLlK> A

Ggi, to ftll heaven wint sointa, ao^finish i fcingidinn of eternal glory onto Gai.

No man therefore mnst tWnk himself eicnssd from the emctnesT of piety and morality, because he has chosen t» be idle and indepenitent in the world; for the neceasttieB of a reMonable and holy life, are riot foandcd in the several condltiona and employments of this life, but in the immutable nature of God, and the nature of Rtan. A man is not to he reasonable and holy, because be ia a priest, or a father of a family ; but he is to be a pioui priest, and a good father, because piety and good- ness are the laws of human nature. Could any man pUase God, without living according toreaaon and order, there would be nothing displeasing to God. in an idle priest, or a reprobate lather. He therefore that abuses his reason, is hke him that abuses the priesthood ; and he that neglects the holiness of ih^ Christian life, is as the . man-ttiat disregards the most important trust.

If a man was to choose to put out hia eyes, rather than enjoy the light, ami see the works of God; if he should voluntarily kill himself, by refusing to eat and drinkj every one would own, that such a one was a rebel < ■gainst God, that justly deserted his highest indignation. You would not say, that this was only'sioFuI in a priest, or a nnster «f ftfamily, hut in every man as such.

Now wherein does the sinfiilness of this behaviour coDsislt Does it not consist in this, that he abuses hts nature, and refuses to act that part for which God had cre'ated him! Bnt if this be true, then all persons (hat abuse their reason, that act a diflferent part from that lor which "God created them, are like this man, rebels against God, and on the same account subject to hia wrath. *

Let us suppose, that this man, instead of putting out his eyes, had only employed them in looking at ridiculous things, or shut them up in a sleep ; that instead of star- ving himself (o death, ,by not eating at all, he should turn every meal into a feast, and eat and drink like aa epicure ; could not he be said to have lived more to the glory of God? could he any more he said to act the part for which God had created biiS| than if he had put o«t bit eyes, aud starved higisetf to dektb t



DEVOUT ASD HOLT UFX. -■ , 119

ffowdabut auppoAi a man a^ng uoreasonablyjdojht suppose him extinguishing' his teaton, instead of putting oat his e;es ; and liring in a course of folly and imperti- nence, instead of starving liimself to death ; and then yon have fouDd out aa great a rebel agaitist God.

For he that puts out his ey«s, or murders hinwatf, has only this guilt, that he abuses the poverMhat God has given him ; that he refuses to act that part for which he was created, and puts himself into a state that is co(t> trary to the divine will. And surely this is the guilt of every one that lives an onreasodahle, unholy, and foolish life. -

As therefore, no particular stale, or private life, is an , excuse for the' abuse of our bodies, or self-murdet ; so no particular state, or private life, is an excuse for' the abuse of dur reason, or the neglect of the hohness of the Christian relLgioti. For surely it is as mach the will of God, that we should ma^e the best use of our rational faculties, that we should conform to the purity and hol> nes3 of Christianity, as it is the will of God, that w« * abould use our eyes, and eat and drink for the preserw lion of our lives.

Till, therefore, a man can shew, that he sincerely en- deavours to live Hccitding (o the will of God, to be that which God requires him to be ; till he can shew that he is striving to live according to the holiness of the Christian rehgton; whosoever he be, or wheresoever he be, he has all that tp answer for, that they have, who refuse to . live, who abuse '(he greatest trusts, and neglect the high- «at calling in the world.

Every t>ody acknowledges, that all orders of men are- to be equally and exactly honest and faithful \ there is no excepttoD to be made in these duties, tor any private or prirticular state of life. Now if we would htil attend to the reason and nature of things ; if we would but con- sider the nature of God, and the nature of man, we , should lind the sam^ necessity for every other right use of our reason, for every grace, or religious temper of the Christian life : we should find it as absurd to sup- pose, that one man must be exact in piety, and another need not, as to suppt^c that one man must be exact in koaesty, but another need n<^. For Chrisliao hunulity.



Serious caix To x

and pi<4y, are a/tf^td tni ^kemiay li\e Iffef as justice and honesty, lerhand, \rt\de, sensuHlily, and covet- ept dteorders of the soul, are- as high «9on, and as oostrary to God, as cheat-

inesty seem indeed, to vu^^tv cy«% to cause they are so hurtful to civil socje- Tely punished bj human laws, er mankiiKt in a higher vtew, as GimPb }f rational beings, thai are to gtoriff tse of their renson, andby -acting con- ii-der of their nature, wp riiall fintl,

that is equally contrary to reason adfl :s God's enib and designs, and disor- dglory of the rntional worl<l,is equafc id equally odious to God. This nouM

sin of aensoahly js like the sm of dis- era OS aa great objects of the divine

nsider mankind in a farther view, as^ ' fallen spirits^ that are baptized into the Son of God ; to be temples of th« 'e according to lA holy inspirations; e reasonable sacrifice of an humble, 1 life ; to puFify themselves from the all; to make a risfht use of the meant to be sona of eternni glory; if we look true light, then wc shall rind that aU ;ontrary to this holy society, that ar» Snite mercy ; all actions that make lit that di<^race his body, that abuse the id oppose our hopes of glory, have kt- 4hat can make us forever odious unto ^h pride and sensuality, and other vices do not hurt civil society, as cheating yet they hurt that society, and oppose

ere greater and more glorious in the lithe societies that relate lo this world. re can be more false, than to ima^ne, re private persona, that have taken gp-

employgaent of life, that thorefoie we



BWOCT and holt UfK. Ifil

mni Bre more at^ge, indulge onr appetites, enl be less careful of the duties of pie 1;^ and holineM; foritil ta good an excuse for obeating and dishonesty. Because he that abuses his reason, that indulges himself in h^utd sensuality, that neglects to act the wise and reasonable (mrt c^ a tme Cbristhin, has every thing in his Ufe to reader bim hateful to God, that is to be fouaiMh cheating and dishonetty.

If therefore yon rather dioose to be an idle epicure^* {bm to be unfaithful ; if jou rather choose to Kve in lust md sensuality, than to injure your neighbour in his goods, you have maite no better a prorision for (he favour of God, than he that rather chooses -to rob a house, than t*. rob a church.

For the abusing of our own nature, is as great a dia- obedience against God, as (be injuriDg our neighbour; and he that wants piety totvards God, has done as ninch to danoQ tumself, as he that wants'honesty towards men. Every argument therefore, that proves it necessary for all men, in all stations of life, to be truly honest, proves it equally necessary for all men, in all stations of life, to be truly holy and pious, and do all things i& such a man- ner, as is suitable to the glory of God.

Again, another A^ment to prove that all orders of men are obliged to be thus holy and devout io the com- mon course of their lives, in the use of every thing that they enjoy, may be taken from our obligation to prayer. it is granted, that prayer is a duty that belongs to all states and conditions of men ; now if we inquire into the reastm of this, why no stale of life is to be excused from prayer, we shall find it as good a reason, why every state of life is to be made a state of piety and holiness io all its parts.

For the reason why we are to pray ijnto God, arid praise him with hymns, and psalms of thankf^iving, is this : because we are to live wholly unto God, and glorify him in all possible ways. It is not because the praises of words, or forms of thank«^ving, are more particularly parts of piety, or more the worship of God than other tilings; but it is becatise they bre possible ways of ex- • pressing our dependence, our obedience and devotion to God. Kow if (his be the reason of verbal praises anJ^

n



15* ^ . ■ i. SERIWJS CALL TO A-

IhwksgiTJngs to God, because ne oM to live UBto God mll^owible naji, then it plainly follows, that we ace equstUy obliged to wonhip, and glorify God itt ali .other action!, tliat can be turned into acts of piety and obedi- ence to Lira. And as actitHU are of much more Bigsifi- ottncy than norda, it mual be a much more acceptable worship oAfiod, to glorify him in ali the actions of oar ComrnuD li^, than with any little form of words at any particular limes.

Thus, if God is to be worshipped with forms of thanks- j^ving, he that makes it a rule to be content and thankfiil in. every part and accident of his Ufe, becMise it comei from God, prai>>es God ip a much higher manner, than he *lhat has some set time for sii^ng of psalms. He that dares not any an ill-natured word, or do an unreasonable thiof, because he considers God as every where present, per^rms a better devotion than he that dares not miss the church. To live in the iforld as a stranger and a pilgrim, using all its enjoyments as if we used them not, .making at! our actions so many steps towards a better Ufe, is offenng a better sacrifice to God, Ihiiu any forms of holj ' ttnd heavenly prayers-

To be humble in all our actions, to avoid every ap- pearance of pride and vanity, to be week and lowly in •ur words, actioni, dresji, behaviour and desigas, in imi> tatioD of our blessed Saviour, is worshipping God in a higher manner, than they who have only times to fall low on their knees in devotion. He that contents him- self with necessaries, that he may give the remaiader.to those that want it ; that dares not to spend any money foolishly, because he considers it as a talent from God, which must be used according to bis will, praises God with something that is more glonous than songs of praise.

He that has appointed times for the use of wise and piouB prayers, performs a proper instance of devodon; but he that allows himself no times, nor any places, nor any actions, but such as are strictly conformable to wis- dom and holiness, worships the divine nature with the most time wad substantial devotion. For who does not know, that it is better to be pure and holy, than to talk about purity and bolmess? Nay, who does not kDOW, that a man is to be reckoned no farther pure, or holy, o^



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. ^ 1*9

jost, tfian he is pnK, aed hcrlj; and jwt in die cMU- tDOD course of hia life? But if this be pliiiD, then it it also pt«n, that it is better to l>e holy, than to have boty prayers. ■

Prayers therefore are so fop from being a sofficient derotion, that they are the smallest parts of it We an to praise God with ivorils aod prayers, becRvse it is « possible way of jlorifyingf God, who has giYen us such facalties, as may be So ased. But then as words are bat small things in themselves, as times of prayer are bnt little, if compared with the rest of our lives; so that deTOden which consists in limes and forms of prayer, is bnt a very small thing, if compared to that devotion which is to appear in every other part and circumstance of our lives.

Again ; as it is an easy thing to worship Ood with forms (rf' words, and (o observe times of ollering them unto bim, so il is the smallest kind of piety.

Aod on the other hand, as it is more cBflicult to wor^ ship God with our substance, to honour him with' the right use of our time, to offer to him the continual sacri- fice of self-denial and mortiiication ; as it requires more piety to eat and drink only for such enda as may glorify tiod, to undertake no labour, nor allow of any diversion, but where we can act in the name of God ; as it is most difficult to sacrifice all our corrupt tempers, correct all onr passions, and make piety to God, the rule ami mea- snre of all the actions of all our common life, so the de- volion of this kind is a much more acceptable service unto God, than those words of devotion which we ofier to him either in the church or m our closet.

Every sober render will easily perceive, that I don't intend to lessen the true and great value of prayers, either public or private ; but only to shew him, that they are . . certainly but a very slender part of devotion, when com- pared to a devout life.

To see this in a yet clearer light, let us suppose a person to have appointed times for praising God, with psalms and hymn», and to be strict in the observation of them ; let it be supposed also, that in his common Ufe ke is restless and- aneasy, full ofmurmuringH and com- plaiatsi at every thing, never pleased but by chance, a*



Hi ^ i SERIOUS CALL TO *

kia temper bappeM tor oany hHn, but munnorfii^ a>d npining at tbe very Masons, aad hnTing somettHog to dislike in erery (fain; that happens to him. N«w can jou conceive on^ things more absurd and nnreasdsiible, than SBcb a character as this 7 is such a one to be rech» •ned tbanUu) to God, because he has forms of praise which be oSen to him? Hay, is it not certain, that (Bch forms of praise muat be so Sar fr6m being an ao- eeptahle derotion to God, that they must be abhorred ■> an.ahoaiination f Noir the absurdity nhich yOu see in this isBtaace, is the same in any other part of our life ; if our common life hath any contrariety to our prayers, it is the same alraminatim, as songs of thanksgiving in the mootft •f mhrmureFB.

Bended knees, whilst yon are clothed widi pi44e ; heavenly petitions, whifst yon are hoaidii^ up treasures ' upon earth ; holy devotions, tvhilst you live in the follies •f the world ; prayers of meekness and charity, wliibt jonr heart is the seat of spite and resentment ; hours of prayer, whilst you ^ve up days and years to idle divev- nons, impertinent visits, and foolish pleasures; are as absnrd, unacceptable service to God, ae forms of tbank»^ giving from a person that lives in repinings and discwit- tent

So that tmlees the common course of our lives be. ac- cording to the commMi spirit of our prayers, our prayers are so far from being a real or sufficient degree of derv- Gon, that they become an empty lip-labour, or, what is TTorse, a notorious hypocrisy. »

Seeing therefore we are to make the spirit and temper of our prayers the common spirit and temper of our lives, diis may serve to convince us, that all orders of people are to labour and aspire after the same utmost . » perfection of the Christian life. For as all Christiana ara to nse the same holy and heavenly devotions, as they Bra all with the same camestocRs to pray for the Spirit of God ; BO is it a sufficient proof, that all orders of peo- ple are. lo the utmost of their power, to nvike their life agreeable to that one Spirit, for which they are all to pray.

As certain theretbre as the same boUnew of praycn



iiyGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. m

ireittrires the same holiaeBs of life, bo certain is it, that all Christiana are called to the same holiness of life.

A soldier er a trttdesatan, is Dot called to minister «t the altar, or preach the gospel; but every soldier or tradesman is as mach obliged to bedevoat, humble, holjj and heavenly-minded in all the parts of his common hfe, as a clergymao is obliged to be zealous, faithful, and la- borious in all parts of his profession.

And all this, for this, one plain reason, because all peo- ple are to pray for the same holiness, wisdom, and d^ Tine tempers, and to make tbeooselres aa fit as they caa for the same heaven.

*' All men, therefore, as men, have one and the sams important bosinessi to act up to Uie excellency of4heir rational natnre, and to make reason and order the lavr of all their designs and actions. All Christians, as Chris- tians, have one aod the same calling, to. live according ta the excellency of the Christian spirit, and to make the saUime precepts of the gospel, the rule and measure of all their tempers in common life. The one thing need- ful to one, is the one tfaing needful to all.

The merchant is no longer to hoard up treasures upon earth ; the soldier is no longer to fight for glory ; the great scholar is no longer to prifle himself in the deptha of science ; but they must all with one spirit count all thing) Imt liat,/or the txeellency of the kntneUdge of Chriit Jaas.

The fine lady must tescfi her eyes to weep, and be clothed with humility. The polite gentleman must ez- crai^ the gay thoughts of wit and mocy, for a brokea and a eontrite heart. The man of quality must so far .renonnce the dignity of his birtb, as to think himself miserable till be is bom again. Servants must consider their service as done unto God. Maslera must cimsider their servants as their brethren in Christ, that are to b« treated as their fellow members of the mystical body of Christ. •

- . . Young ladies mnst either devote themselves to- piety, prayer, .self-denial, and all good works, in a virgin state ■^ 'of life; Of else marry (o be holy, sober, and prudent in .^ care of a family, bringing up their children in piety, 'niuoilitv and devotion, and abounding in all ether good 11*



MC 1. SEKfOUS CALL t0.jl ,

works, lo the ntmoit of tfaeir ^te and ct^city. Iliey have DO choice of say thJBg <Ue, but must devote them- ■elve« to God iu oae of these etatei. The; may choog* ft married or a flit^le Lfe ; but it ia aot left to their choicA, whether they wilt make either slate aatate of.boflneBS, humility, devotion, and all other duties of the ChristiaB life. It is no more left ia their power, because thaj bare fortuoes, or are bora of rich parents, to dividr* themselves betwixt God and the world, or take mch pleasures as their fortunes would aifuiid them, than it is sJluwable for them to be soinetimes chaste uid mod^stf mod sometimes not.

They are not to consider how mocb religion may t«- cure. them 'a fair character, or h<Av they may add devo- tion to an inipertinent, vain, and giddy life ; bnt must look into the spirit and temper of theic^ prayers, into the nature and end of Christianity, and then ftiey will find, . that whether married or unmarried, they have but one busiuess upon their hands, to be wise and pious, mod holy, ROt in little modes and forms of worship ; bnt ia tb« whole turo of their minds, in the whole form of all their behaviour, and in the daily coarse of their commoit life.

Young gentlemen mail consider what our blessed Sst- ik)ursaid to the young gentleman in the gospel; he bid him lell all that he had, and give it to the poor. Kow though this text should not oblige alt people to sell all, yet it certainly obliges all kind of people to employ all their estates in such wise, and reasonable, and charitable ways, as may sufficiently shew that all that they have ig ^voted to God, and that no part of it is kept from tbi! poor to be spent in needless, vain, and foolish eipenses.

If, therefore, young gentlemen propose to themselves a life of pleasure and indulgence, if ihey spend their estates in a high l^iog, in luxury and intemperance, in state and equipage, in pleasures and diversions, in sports and gam- ing, and siRh like -vrantoD gratifications of their foolish passiqns, they have as much reason to look upon tb^bo- . selves to be angels, as to be disciples of Christ.

Let them be assured, that it is the one only business of ■ a Christian gentleman, to .distinguish himself by good vork3|to b« eminent in the Boit sublime virtues of ^t»: '



BtfOfTT ADD KOLT UtA Vtf

fMp«lt to Wu witb the ignfvance and weafaMM «fth« vulgar, to be a tHeod iuid patron to kU who dwell about kim, to Eire in tbe utnoat hitights of wisdom and holineM, and shew through the whole course of hii Uf() a true rali^oua greatneaa of mind. They muM aspire after such a gentility, as thej rerg'bi have leant from eeeiag Ae blessed Jeans, nnd diew no other spirit of a gentle^ mau, but- »uch as thejr might have got by living with tb^ holy apostles. They nnist leam to love God with all tbeir heart, witb all their aoul, and with all their ■treagth, and their peighhour as themselvet: and thes they have all the greatnen and distinction that they caft have here, and are fit for »n eternal happiness in heaven hereafter. Thus in all orders and conditions either of men or womdn, this is the one commiHi hoLoess, which U to be the common life of all Christiana.

The merchant is not to leave devotion to the clergy- man, DOr the clergyman to leave 'humility to the labour Kt\ women of fortune are not to leave it to the poor of their sex, to be discreet, chaste keepers at home, to ad«m ' themselves io modest apparel, shame facedness atid si^ briety; nor poor women leave it to the rich to attend 00 the worship and service of Ood. Great men must bft eminent for true poverty of spirit, and people of a loir utd afflicted slate must greatly rejoice in God.

The man of strength and power is to forgive and pra;y f(v his enemies, and the innocent sufferer that is chain- ed in prison, must with Paul and Silas, at midnight rii^ praise to God. For God is to be glorified, hohnen js to be practised, and the spirit of region is to be the cmnmon spirit of every Chiislian in every state and con- dition of life.

For the Son of God did not come from above, to add an external form of worship to the several ways of life that are in the world ; and so to leave people to live as they did'before, in such tempers and enjoyments as th« faaiuon and spirit of the world approves. But as he came down from heaven^ altogether divine and heavenly in hti own nature, to it was to call mankind to a divine ^Bi heaTenly life ; to thejiighest change of their whole na- ttire and temper; to be bom again of the Holy Spirit; to valk in the vnsdom and light and love of God ; and bt



UK A aiRIOUB CALL TO A

like bim to the utmost af their power ; to Fcnounce M tke most plausible wajs (^the world, whether of gr«at- aesB, business, or pleasure i to a raortificatioD of all th«ir most agr«eaUe paasiMis ; atad to live in such wisdom, and purity, and holinecs, as might fit them to be glorious in the enjoyment of God to all etemitjr.

Whatever, therefore, te foolish, ridiculons, vaio or earthly, or sensual in tbe life of a CbhstiaD, is something that ought not to be there, it is a spot and a defitemeot that must be washed away with tears of repentance. But if any thing of this kind mm through the course of our whole life, if we allow ourselves in things that are either vain, foolish or sensual, we renounce oar {ko- fessioB.

For as tare as Jesus Christ was wisdom and hohiiess, as sure as he came to make us Uke himself, and to be bnptized into his 'Spirit, so sure is it, that none can be. said to keep to their ChristiaD profession, but they, who to the utmost of their power Uve a wise and holj aod heavenly life. This, uid this alone, is Christianity, an universal holiness in every part of life, a heavenly wis- dom in ail our actions, not cooforming to the spirit and temper.of the world, but turning all worldly enjcymeDta into means of piety and devotion to God.

But now if this devout state of heart, if these habiU ofinward holiness be true religion, then true religion is equally the duty and happiness of all orders of mea ; for there is nolhiog to recommend it to one, thai is not the same recommendation of it to all states of people.

If it be the happiness and glory of a bishop to live in this devout spirit, full of these holy tempers, doing every thii^ as unto God, it is as much the glory and happinesa of all men and women, whether young or old, to hve in the same spirit And whoever can find any reasons, why an ancient bishop should be intent upon divine things, turning all his life into the highest exercises of piety, wisdom and devotion, will find them so many rea* ions, why he should to the utmost of his power do the same himself. ,

If you say, that a bishop must l^e an eminent example of Christian holiness, because of his high and sacred call< i»g, you say right. But if you say tint it is more to his



iiyGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLT LUf^ 1M

■dvuita^re to be eicmplary, than it ia yoore, }«d greatly mistake. For there is aothing to make the highest d«- greee of holinesi desirable to « hiihop, but nhat makes tb«n«qQaIlj desirable to eveij^ounf penoa ofeTeiy faoiily.

. For an exalted ^tf, high devotion, aod the religkras a«es of every Uun^, is as mach the glory and happiaefli «f one state of hfe, aa it is of another:

So but fancy in your mbd nhat a spirit of piety yo* iroQld have in the best bishc^ in the world, bow yoa woald have him love God, how yoo woald have hini imitate the Ufe of our Saviour and his apostles, how yon woald have him Uve above the world, sbinii^ Jn all die instances of a heavenly life, and then yon have found out that spirit, wluch you ou^t to n»ke the spirit of your •wa life.

I de«re every reader to dwell a while npon this re- flection, and perhaps he wilt find more conviction lirora it* than he imagines. Every one can tell how good and . pious he would have some people to be ; every one knowi now wise and reasonable a ttoog it is in a bishop, to be entirely above the world, and be an example of Chris- tiao perfection : as soon as yoa think of a wise and ao- cient bishop, you fancy some eialted degree of, piety, a living example of all those holy tempers, which you find described in the go<>pel.

Now if you ask yourself, what is the happiest thing for a young clei^man to do ? you must be forced to an- ■wer that ^othing can be so happy and glorious for him ■a to be lilre that excellent holy bishop.

If you go -on, and ask what is the happiest Ihii^ for any young gentleman or his sisters to do ? the answer must be the same ; that nothing can be so happy or glo- rious for them, as to live in such habits of pie^^in such exercises of a divine life, as this good old bishop does. For every thing that is great and glorious in religioo, is as much the true glory of every man or woman, as it i« i the glory of any bishop. If high degrees of divine love, if fervent charity, if spotless purity, if heavenly affection, if constant mortifioation, if frequent devotion be the best and happiest way of Hfe for aaj Chriatiail : it il M % every Chiistiaa.



m.Googlc



;1.» A 9ERI0UB CALL TO A

Couider ag^D ; if you was to see a bisbop m tbe ■ whole Goarae of his li/e, liTJng below his character, con- fomuDg to all the foolish tempera of the world, and gOT' eraed bj the same carva aad fears which ^rera vain and worldly men, what would you thiak of him ? Would you think that he was oaly guilty of a small mistake T No : you would coDdemn him, as erring- in that which is not only the most, but the only important matter Ihat re- lates to him. Stay awhile in this con^deration, till your mind is fiilly convinced, bow miserable a mistake it is in a bishop, to live a careteee, worldly Ufe.

Whilst you are thinking in this manneF, turn your thoughts towards some of your acquaintance, your brother or sister, or any young person. Now if yon ie« the common course of their iiyes to be not according to the doctrines of the gospel, if you see that their way of life cannot be said to he a sincere endeavour to enter in at the strait gate, you see something that you are to coodamn in the same degree, and for the same leasouK They do not commit a small mistake, but are wrong ^.' that which is their all, and mistake their true happiness, as much as that bishop does, who neglects the high du- ties of his calling. Apply this reasoning to yourself; if you find yourself tiring an idle, indulgent, Tain life, chooe- ii^[ rather to gratify your passions, thnn to live up to the doctrines of Christianity, and practice the plain precepts of our blessed Lord, you hare all that bhndness and un- reasonable d ess to chaise npon yourself, that you can Sliar^ npon any irregular bishop.

For, all the virtues of the Christian life, its perfect purity, its heavenly tempers, are as much the sole rule of your life, as the sole rule of the life of a bishop. If you neglect these holy tempers, if you do not eagerly aspire after them, if you do not shew youreelf a visible iesample of them, yon are as much fallen from yoor true happmess, you are as great an enemy to yourself, and i have made as bad a choice, as that Ushop who chooses rather to enrich his family, than to be tike an apostle. For there is no reaaon why you should think the highest ho- Uness, the most heavenly tempers, to be the duty and happiness of a bishop, hot what is as good a reason why you shoo)^ think the same tempers to be. the duty and



■^ DEVOUT AND HOLY Lira. 131

faa^neas of-atl Christians. . And as the wisest bishm in the norld, is he, nho lif es in the greatest heig'hts ofho- Udcss, who is most eiemplarj in all the exercises t^at ^Tine life, so Ihe wisest youth, the wisest weroait, wheth- er married or oDmamed, is she, that lives in the highest degrees of ChristiaB holiness, utd all the exerdsea of -a £Tine and heaTeulf life.



SOME people will perhaps object,, that all these rules of hoi; living unto God in all that we do, are too pgat a restraint upon human Ufe ; ttxat it will be made V|M'anxtous a state, b; thus introducing a regard to God fii all oar actioas. Ard that by depriving ourselves of to many secmiagly innocent pleasures, we shall render •ur lives dnll, uneasy, and melancholy.

To wlwch it may be answered :

First, That these rules are prescribed for, and will •ertainly procure a quite contrary end. That inslead of ' makifu; our lives diUI and melansholy, they will render them full of content and strong salisfactioos. That by these rules we only change the childish satisfactions of our vain and sickly passions, for the solid enjoyments, and I real happiness of a sound mind.

Secondly, That as there is no foundation for comfort in the enjoyments of thj^ life, but in the assurance thai a wise and good God governeth the world, so the more we 6nd out God in every thing, the more we xpply to him in every place, the more we look up to him in all our ac- tions, the more we conform to his will, the more we iict ^cording to his wisdom, and imitate his goodness ; by so much tbe.more do we enjoy God, partake of the divme natare, and heighten and increase all that is happy and CMnfortable in human life.

fidtily. He that is endearoring to subdue and root



a jL flsauoim call to a

«at of hi* ndod all (hoM pamons erf* pride, enry snd aat- bilion, nliicli rel^on opposes, is doing more to make UiBMtf tiappj, oven in thu life, than be tkat is contriiringf means to indulge thera.

For these paMioDH are the causes of all the disquiets and vexations of human life : they are the dropsies and fevers of our mind, vexing them with &lse appetites, and restless cravings after snch things ss we do not want, and spoiling OUT taste for those things which are our proper good.

Do hot imagine that yon somewhere or other saw a nan that proposed reason as the rule of all his actiona, that had □« desires but after such things as natare wants, and rehgion approves, that was as pure from aH the mo- tions of piide, env;, and covetousness, as froia thou^ta of murder; that in this freedom froo^ worldly paasioni, he had a sonl full of divine love, wishing and praying tiwt all men may have what they want of worii" things, and he partaker* of eternal glory in the Ii|i



Do but fan^ a man livii^ in this manner, and your o^ conscience will immediately tell yoa^ that he is Uie hap^ piest man in the world, and that it is not m the power of the richest faacy to invent any higher happiness in the present state of life.

And on the other hand, if yoa suppose him to be ia any degree less perfect ; if you suppose him but subject to one foolish fondness, or vain passion, your own con- science will again tell you, that be so far lessens his own happiaess, and robs himself of the true enjoyment of bis Other virtues. So true is it, that the more we live by the rules of religion, the more peaceful and happy d« we render our lives. •

Aguin, as it thus appears, that real happiness is only to be had from the greatest degrees of piety, the greatest denials of our passions, and the strictest rules of religion^ so the same truth will appear from a consideration ofbu- fnan misery. If we look into the world, and viev the disquiets an^ troubles of human life, we shall find that they are all owing to onr violent and irreligious pataioos.

Now all ironble and uneasiness is founded in the want oFaomethiog or other; would we therefore know tite



r^VfV^ir^ '-f-mr ip^ ' 7* ^JP'-9



■" DEVQOT-AMD HOLT LIHL »»

tmp cause of our troubles and disquiets, we must find oat fte cause of our waala ; becBUse that which creates and iocreaseth ovf wants, does in the same degree cn^ and increase our trouble aii4 disquiets.

God Ahnigibtj has seut us into the world witb verj few wants ; meat, ami drink, and clotliiDg:, are the onlj things necessBry in life ; and as these are only our present nee&, so the present worid is well furnished to supply these needs.

If a man has half the world in his power, he can make so more of it than this; as he wants it onlj to support an animal Ufe, so it is unable to do any thing else for bim, or to a&rd him aoy other happiness.

This iS the state of man, bom with few wants, and ml* « large world, ■very capable of supplying them. So that one would reasonably suppose, that men should pass their Utes in content and thankfulness to God, at least that they ^onld he free from violent disquiets and vesations, as be- 1 in a world, that has more than enough to re- s' ail their wantsF

^ut if to all this we add, thitt this short life, thus fur- Bished with all that we want in it, is only a short passage to eternal glory, where we shall be clothed with the bnghtnesa of aageU, and enter into tiie joys of God, we might elill more reasonably espcct, that human life should be astate of peace, and joy, and delight in God. . Thus it would certainly be, if reason had its full power

But alas ! thoug'h God, and nature, and reason, make human 'life thus free from wants, and no full of happjnsss, yet our passions, in rebellion against God, ag^in^t nature and reason, create a new world of evils, and till human life with ima^nary wants, and vain disqniets.

The man of pride has a thousand wants, which only his own pride has created ; and these render him as full «f trouble, as if God had created him with a thousand appetites, without creating any thing that was proper to satisfy them. Envy and ambition have also their endless wauls, which disquiet the souls of men, and by their contradictory motions, render them, as foolishly mis- erable, as those that want to fly and creep at the same time,

12



mGooglt



X



134 A ESRIOUS CALL TO A

Let bat aaj complaiiiia^, disquieted man tell yau tbe ground of hia lytewineas, and you will plaioly see, that he 18 the author' of hii own torment; that be is vexing himself at some imag'inary eTil, irhich will cease to tor- ment him, as soon as be is content to be that which God, and nature, and reason require him to be.

if jou should see a man passing his days in disquiet, because he could not walk upon the water, or catch birds a« they fly by -him, you would readily Confess, that such an one miEht thank himself for such uneasiness. But now if you look into all the most tormenting disquiets of life, you will find them all thus absurd ; where people are only tormented by their own foUy, and vexing themselves at such things as no more concern them, nor are any more their proper good, than walking upon the water, or catch- ii^ birds.

What can you conceive more silly and extravagant, ' than t« suppose a man racking his brains, and fitudyiu||; night and thy how to fiy ? wandering from his own h^^K - and home, wearying lumeelf with limbing upon ev^^ ascent, cringing and courtii^ every body be meets, to *- lift him up from the ground, bruisiog himself.-with con- tinual falls, and at last breaking hie neck ? And all this, from an imagination that it would be glorious to hare the eyes of people gazing up at him, and migb^ happy to . eat, and drink, and sleep, at the top of the highest trees In the kii^om. Would you not readily own, that such on one was only disquieted by his own folly?

If you ask, what it sonifies to suppose such silly crea- tares as these, as are no where to be found in human • hfe,

It may be answered, that wherever you see an nmbi* tious man, there you see this vain and senseless flyer.

Again, if you should see a man that had a lai^e pond of water, yet Uviog in continual thirst, not sufiierii^ himself to drink half a draught, for fear of lessening his pond ; if you should see him wasting his time and strength, in fetching more water to his pond, always thirsty, yet always carrying a huckel of water in bis hand, watching early and late to catch the drops of rain, gap- ing after every cloud, and running greedily into every mire and mud, in hopes of water, aod always stD<)yiii|r



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. 135

fco* to makeeveiy ditch empty itself into hia pond. If you should see bim grow grey and old in these ansioua liibours, and at last end a careful, thirsty life, by falling into his own pond, would you not Siiy ttiat such an one was not only the iiuthor of all his own disquiets, but wae foolish enough to be reckoned amongst idcots and mad- men? But yet foolish and absurd as this character is, it does not represent balf the follies, and absurd disquiets, of Uie coretous man.

I could now easily proceed to stiew the same effects of all our other passions ; and make it plainly appear, that all our miseries, vexations, and complaints, are entirely of our own making, and Ihut in the same absurd manner, as in these instances of the covetous and ambitious man. Look where you will, you will see all worldly vesationa but like the vexation of him, that was always in mire and mud in search of water lo drink, when he had more at knae than was sufficient for ih hundred horses. .^iRelia is always telling you how provoked she is, what ^Holerably shocking things happen to her, what mon- strous usage she suffers, and Vhat vexations she meets with every where. She tells you that her patience is HuUe worn out, and theie is no bearing the beha?iour of people. Every assembly that she is at, sends her home provoked; something or other has been said or done, that no reasonable, well-bred person ought to bear. Poot people that want her charity, are sent away with has)^' answers, not because she has not a heart to part with any money, but because she is too full of some trouble of Her own, to attend to the complaints of others. Cslia has no business upon her hands, but to receive the income of a plentiful fortune ; but yet by the doleful turn of her mind, you would be apt to think, that she had nei- ther food nor lodging. If you see her look more pale thnn ordinary, if her lips tremble when she speaksto you, it is because she is just come from a visit, where Lupus took no notice at all of her„but talked all the lime to Lacinda, who has not half her fortune. When cross accidents have so disordered her spirits, that she is forc- ed to send for the doctor to make he^ able to eat ; she lells htm, in great anger at Providences that she never was



130 A SBRIOUS CALL TO A

well smce she traa boni, and that she envies ever^ beg-' ' far that she sees in health.

This is the disquiet life of Cslia, who has nothing to torment her but her own epirit. .

If you wonld inspire her with a Christian humiUfy, . you need do no more to make her as huppj as an; person inthe.worl^. This virtue would make her thaa^Ai! lo God for half so much health as she has had, and b^lp her tff enjoy mbre fof the time to ceme. This virtue would keep off tremblings of the spirits, and loss of appetite,' and her blood would need nothing else to sweet- en it, '

I hare just touched upon these absurd characters for no other end, but to convince you in the plainest roan- ner, that the strictest rules of religion are so far from rendering a life dull, Roxious, and uncoibfartable (as is above objected) that, on tlie contrary, nil the mtseriea, .Tciationi, and complaints t^at are in the world, are aB owing to the want of religion ; being directly caussd by those absurd passions^ which region teaches us to deny. *"

^ For, all the wants which disturb human life, which 'make os asejwy to oursetves, quarreLwme wifli others^ and unthankful to God ; which weary us in vain labours and foolish anxieties; which carry us from project lo MVJect, irom place to place, in a poor pursuit of we ^Row not what, are wants which neither God, nor nature, nor reason hath subjected us to, bat are solely infused into us, by pride, envy, ambition, and coretous-

So far, therefore, as you reduce your desires to such things as nature and reason' require ; so far as you regu- late all the motions of your heart by the strict rules of religion, so far you remove joursplf from that infinity of wants a«<l vexatious, which tonnent every heart that is left to itself;

Most people indeed, i^onfess, that religion preservesus from a great many «vils, and helps us in many respects to a^ore happy enjoyment of ourselves ; but then they imagine, that this is only true of such a moderate share of religion, as only gently restrains us from the excesses of our passions. They suppose that the strict rules and



^ . DETOUT AND HOLT UStL im

testtalata of an exalted pie^, are such contradictions to our nature, as must aeeds make our lirea ^ull and uDCom- fortable.

Althoug^h the weakneaa of this objectioo nifBcieDtly appears from what hath heen already said, jet I shall add one more word to it.

Tbis^bjection supposes, that religion, moderatelj prac- tised, iflds much to the happiness of hfe ; but that snch height of piety as the perfection of religion requiretb, has a contrary effect.

It supposes, therefore, that it is happy to be kept from the eiceasea of envy, but unhappy to be kept from 'other ■ degrees of envy; that it is hagpy to be delivered from a boundless ambition, but unhappy to be without a more moderate ambition. It supposes also, that the happin«8s> oflife consists in a mixture of ambition, and humility, charity and envy^ heavenly affection and covetousness.— Alt which is as absurd, as to suppose that it is happy to b*free from excessive pains; but unhappy to be without more moderate paiss; or that the happiness of health consisted in being partly sickf^nd partly well.

For if humility be the peace and rest of the soul, then no one has so much happiness from humility, as he that is the most humble. If excessive envy is a torment of the soul, he most perfectly delivers himself from torment that most perfectly extinguishes every sparli of envy, there is any'peiice and joy in doing any action accordl to the will of God, he that "brings the most of bis actioi51 to this rule, does most of all increase the peace and joy •f his life.

And thus it is in every virtue ; if yOa act up to every degree of it, the more happiness you have from H. And so of every vice^ if you only abate its excesses, you do hut Uttle for yourself; but if you reject it in all de- g^es, then you feel the true ease and joy of a reformed

As for example; if religion only restrains the excesses I of"revenge, but lets the spirit Itill live within you in lesser instances, your religion may have made your life a' little more outwardly decent, but not have made. you at all hap[Her or easier in yourself. But if you have' once sacrificed all thoughts of revenge, in obedience to 12*



4

onv



138 A 6WIIOU9 CALL TO A , ^

God, and are f«solvfld to n^turv gpod for eril at >U^ tines, thnt you may render youraulf more like to God, and fitter /or his mercy id the kingdoai ot lore and giory ; this is a height of virtue that will make you feel its hap-

Secondly, As to those satisfactions aod enjoymeDt* which BD eicalled piety requireth us to deu^ ourselws, this deprivea us of real comfort of life.

For, Itt, Piety requires us to Feoounce no ways of lifc^ where we can act reasoDably^ and offer what we do to the fflory of God. All ways of life, all sati»factioBg and en- joyments that are within these boun<}9, are no way denied 119 by the strictest rules of piety. Whatever you can do, or enjoy, as in the presence of Ga;d, aa his servant, aa hia •rational creature, who has received reason and knowledge from him ; all thnt you can perform oonforaiably to a rai- tional nature, and the will of God, all this ia allowed bj the laws of piety ; and will you think that your life wiU be uncomfortable, unless you may displease God, be a fool and mad, and act contrary to that reason and wisdom which he has implanted i^ you ?

And as for those satisfactions, which we dare not oSfer to a holy God, which are only invented by the folly and corniption ol'the world, which inHame our passions, and sink our souls into grossness aijd sensuality, and render

«.DCapable of the divine favour either here or hereaf- ; sarely it can be no uncomfortable slate of life, to be cued by religion from aiicb »elf-murder, and te be rendered capable of eternal buppiness.

Let us suppose a peraon destitute of that knowledge which we have from our aemses, placed somewhere alone by himself, in the midst of a .variety of things which i

be did not know how to use, that he has by him bread, wine, water, golden dust, iron chains, gravel, garments, fire, &.C. Let it besupposed, that be has no knowledge of the right use of these things, nor any direction from his senses hoiv to quench his thirst, or snti*ify his hunger, or matte sny use of the things about him. Let iTbe ', m supposed, that in his draught he puts golden dust into his eyes; when his eyes smart, he puts wine into his ears; thnt in his hunger, he puts gravel in his mouth; '

fluU in pain, he loads himself wiUi the iron cbaios ; that



JOaraOT AND HOLT LIfIL '• i»

fedji^cold, he puU bif feet, id tke water ; that beiag frighted at tbe firet be runs away from it ; that being weary, he makes a seat of his bread. Let it be appos- ed, that Ihrong^h bis i^orance of tbe right -use of the things that are about him, he wilt plainly tormeat faii»- selfwbilathe lives; and at last die, blinded with dust, choked with gravel, and loaded with irons. Let it be - supposed that seme good being came to him, and shewed -him the nature and use of all tbe things that were about him, and gave h>m such strict rules of using them, m wouldcertamly, if observed, make him the happier for all that he had, and deliver biin from tbe pains of hunger, and thirst, and cold.

Now coiiJd you with any reason affinn, that those strict rules of using the things that were about him« ' has rendered that poor man's Ufe dull and uncomfort- able ?

Now this is in some measure a representation of the rtrict rules of religion ; they only relieve our ignorance, save us from tormenting ourselves, and teach us to usa every thing about us to our i^oper advanta^. »

Man is placed in a world full of variety of things ; his igBorance malcea hi.n use many of them as absurdly, as the man that put dust in h^s eyes to relieve his thirst, or put oa cbaios to.remoye pain.

Religion therefore hnre comes in to his relief, and gives bim strict rules of using every thing that is abAta him ; that by ao using them suitably to his own nature and tbe nature of the things, that he may have alw:ays the pleasure of receiving a right benefit Irom them. It shews him what is strictly right in meat, drink and clothes ; and that he has nothing else to espect from the things of thie world, but to satisfy such wants of hii own ; and then to eitend bis assistance to all his breth- ren, that as far as he is able, be may help all bis fellow- creatures to the same benefit from tbe world that.he bath. ^ It telb him, that Has world ia incapable of giving him aggjotber happiness ; «nd that all endeavours to be hap- ■^jfls heaps of money , w acres of land, in tine clotbea, licb bods, stately equipage, and ^ow and splenirour,* are only raia endeavours, igporuat attempts alter im*



14(1 • A gmkJtje CALL TO A v

possibilities ; these thii^ being no more able ta giv« the least degree of happiness, than dust, in the eyes can cure tbint, or gravel in the mouth satisfy hunger ; but, like dust and gravel misapphed, will only serve to ren- ' der hiM more. unhappy by such an ignorant misuse of them.

It tells him, that althongh this world can do no more for him, than satisfy these wants of the body ; yet that there is a much greater good prepared for man, than eat- ing, drinking, and dressing; that it is yet invisible to his eye*, being too glorious for the apprehension of flesh and blood ; but reserved for him to enter upon, as Boon as this short life is over; ivf^ere, ia.a new body, formed to an angelic likeness, he shall dwell in the light and glory of God to all eternity.

It tells him that this state of glory will be given io all those, that make a right use of the things of this pre- sent world ; who do not blind themselves with golden dust, or eat gravel, or groan under loads of iron of their own putting on ; but use bread, water, wine, and gar- ments, for such end* as are according to nature and rea- son ; and who with faith and thankfulness worship the kiud giver of all that they enjoy here, and hope for here- after.

Now can any (me say, that the strictest rules of such ^religion as this, debar ns any of the comforts of life ? Might it not as justly be said of those rules, (hat only hindered a man from choking himself with gravel ! For the Btricloeas of these rules only consists in the exactness of their rectitude.

Who could complain of the severe strictness of a law, that without any exception forbade the putting of dust into our eyes? Who could think it too rigid, that there were no abatements ? Now this is the etrictoesn of reli- gion i it requires nothing of us strictly, or withtj^ abate- irents, but where every degree of the thing is wrong, where every indulgence does us some hurt.

If religion WbJds all instances of revenge without anvH . •sception, it is t)ecaiise ail reveoge is of the natuj poison ; and though we do not take so much as M m end to- life, yet if we take asy at ail, it cormpi



m ■



■* ijfVOUT AHB HOLT LIFE. ' ui

whole mass ofblood, and makes it difficult to be restored to our former health.

if religion commandB an uniTenal charity^ to love out Mighbour as ourselvei, to forgave and prajr for all oor enemies, without any reservef it is because all degrees »f love are degrees of happiness that etrei^then and support the divine life of the soul, and are i^ necessaiy to in health and happiness, as proper food is necessary to the health and happiness of the body.

If religioQ has laws against laying up treasures upon earth, and commands us to be content with food fuid raiment ; it is because every other-use of the world is abusing it to our own Texatton, and toming all Its cod- Teoiences into snares and traps to deatroy us. It is be- . cause thii plainness and simplicity of life, secures, qs from th€ cares and pains of restless pride and envy, and makes it easier to keep that strait road that will carry as to eternal life. y

If religion sailh, Sell ihat thou luut, cmd gire lOafAs poor ; it is because there is no other natural or reasonable use of our riches, no other way of making ourselTet happier for them ; -it is because it is as strictly right to {^ve Others thnt which we do not want uursel^ as, as it is right to use so miyh as onr own wants require. For if a man has more food than his own nature requires, how ba^e and *un reasonable is it, to invent foolish wa^ of wasting it and make sport for his onn full beilji, " rather tliaa,let his fellow-creatures hare the same comfort from food, which he hath had ? It is so far therefore from being a hard law of religion, to male this nse of onr riches, that a reasonable man would rejoice in that religion which teaches him to be happier in that which he gives away, than in that which he kp eps for himself; which leacbes him to make spare food and raiment great- er blessll%s to him, than that which feeds and clothes hi* bis own body.

lfj«ligion requires us sometimes to fast, and deny onr \ natural appetites, it is to lessen that struf^le and war thai is in our nature ; it is to render our bodies fiMei: in- struments of purity, and more tfhedieot to the good mo- tions of divine grace ; it is to dry up the springs of oijr passions that war against the soul, to oool the flame of



144 A SERIOUS CALL TO ^ *"

our blood, and render the mind more capable of divrnti tneditatioos. So that atlhongh these abstinences give some pain to the body, yet they sq lessen the power of bodily appetites and passions, and so increase our taste of Bpi ritual joys, that even these severities of religion, whea practised with discretion, add mnch to the comfortable enjojrmeot of our lives.

If religion caileth us to a life of watchil^ and prayei*, it is because we live amongst a crowd of enemies, and are always in need of the assistance of God. If we are to conless and bewail our sins, it is because snch con- fessions relieve the mind, and restore it to ease ; as bur- ' dens and weights taken off the shoulders, relieve the feoiiy, and make it easier to itself. If we are to be jrequent and lervent in holy petiltonsi it is to keep ra steady in the sight of our true good, and that we may never want the happiness of a lively failh, a joyful hoK, aod ^eli.^r6nfided trast in God. If w« are to pr^'oftsp, itis thai we may be often happy in sucb se- cret joys ■oe only prayer can give ; in such commaai- Cations of the divine presence, as will fill our minds with all the happiness that beings not in heaven are capa- ble of. ,

Was there aay thing ip the wo^d more wmrthy our care; was there any exercise of the mind, or any con- versalion with men, that turned more to 1)ar advantage '%an this intercourse with God, we should not he called to such a continuance in prayer. But if a man considers what it is that he leaves when he retires to devotion, he' will find it no small happiness to be so. often relieved from doing nothing, or nothing to the purpose ; from dull idleness, unprofitable labour, or vain conversation. If he considers, that alt that is in the w«rld, and all that is doin^ in it, is only for the body, and bodily elements, he will have reason to rejoice at those hours oPprayer,

Shich carry him tohigher consolations, which raise him )Ove these poor concerns, which open to his mind a scene of greater things, and accustom his soul to the hope . aud||Xpectation of them.

9?refigion commands ns to live wholly unto God, and to da all to hii glory, it it becatue every ether way is

- -■ n

Civ.MnGooglc



SBlOTJr ANB HOLT UFE. ' 143

liTKi^ wholly B^iiiDst ouraelyea, and wUI end in our own ^ame and contusion of face*

As every tbing is dark, that God does not. enlighten ; as every thti^ is seoseleas, that has not its share of kaowl- ei^e from Him ; as nothing livei, but by partaking of life from Him; as nothing exists, but because He command! it to be ; so there is do glory, or greatness, but what i> * the glory or greatnees of God.

We indeed may talk of bunwn glory, as we may talk ef human life or human knowledge ; but as we are sure that human Ufe implies nothing of our own, but a de- ' pendent living in God ; or enjoying so much life in God ; so human glory, whenever we find it, must be only so much glory as we enjoy in the glory of God.

This is the state of all crenlures, whether men or angels; as they'make not themselves, so they enjoy nothing Irom themselves ; if Ihey are great, it must be only as ^reat receivers ftf the gifts of God ; their poweE can only be so much of the divine power acting in them ; their wisdom can be only so much of the divine wisdom shining within them; and their light and glory, only so much of the light and gloiy of God shiniog upon tiiem'.

As they are not men or angels, because they had a nind to be so themselves, hut because the will of God formed them to be what they are ; so they cannot enjoy this or that happiness of men or angels, because thejr ' have A mind to it, but because it is the will of God, that such things be the happiness of men, and such tbuigs the happiness of angels. But now if God be thus all in ail; if' his will is thus the measure of all things, and all natures ; if nothing can be done, but by his pow- er; if nothing can be seen, but by a light from him; if we have nothing to fear, but from his justice ; if we have nothii^^ hope (or, but from his goodness ; if this is the nature of man, thus helpless in himself; if this is th^^- state of all creatures, as well those in heaven, as those oa k earth ; if they are nothing, can do nothing, can suffer ' no pain, nor feel any happiness, but so far, and i^^ch degrees, as the power of God does all this : if this be the state of things, then how can we have the leasj gUmpse ofjoy and comfort, how can. jTe.ha<e any peacer



144 * ^ SERIOlffl CALL TO X

fiil enjoymeiil of odtmIvm, but bj livjDg vHioUj tmto (liat God, uBiD^ and doing; everj thing confornttiUy %o ha mli? A life thus devoted unto God, looking whsllj unto him in alt oar actioos, Bnd.doii^ all things suitab^ to bis glorj, it so far from baiDgdoll, and uDcomt'ort- itble, that it creates new comfltrts in evei^ thiog that we do.

On the contrary, W9uld you see bow bappy they are frho'liie according to their own wills, nh» cannot sul>- mit to the dull and melancholy buaioess of a life devoted nnto God? look at the man in the parable, to' whom luB lord had given one talent.

He could not bear the tboughts of using his talent according to the will of him from nbom he had it, and therefore he chose t« make himself happier in a way, of his owa. Lord, says he, / knt'S) thee, that thou.art an hard man, reaping aihere ihou hoat nol town, and gathering wkert fftou hast not stnrmed. And I rtxu afraid, and went and kid thy talent in tke earth. Lo there Ikon'haxt tktuMl thine. Matt. ixv. 24.

His lord having convicted him ont-of bis own meuth, '£spatche9 him with this sentence: Cast the Unprofitable tervant iiita outer darkneii ; there ahalt be weeping atd gnashing of teeth. Mall. «». 30. ■ "

Here yon see how unhappy this man made Wroself by not acting, wholly according to the Lord's will. It was, according to his oivn account, a hRppincs.'' ofmurmuriDg and discontent; 1 knew thee, says he, that thou wast a hard man: it was a happiness of fean> and appre- hensions ; i was, says he, afraid ; it was a bappiness of vain labours and fruitless trnTails : t went, aays he, and hid thy talent ; and after having been a while the sport of foolish passionS, tormenting fears, and fruitless laiiours, he , is reward' of teeth. H Now tb

a strict and exalted piety, that is, a right use of their tal- ■ ' Ml and melancholy state of Lfe. I

1 while free from the restraints and f religion, but instead thereof, they must be uimep thjB absurd government of their passions : they miisf, like the man in the parable, live in murinuringi



is rewarded with darkness, eternal neepiag, aQ^pashing of teeth. , 9

•tI Now this is the happiness of all those, who look upon

■ indexa " ■

eadul mavl s of re



-^r



DEVOUT- AKD HOLT UBE.



•ad discoDtents, in fears and apprehensions. Thej inny avoid Ihe labour of doing |ood, of spending their time desoutlj, of laying up treasores in heaven, of clothing* the naked, of visiting the sick ; but ihen ihiy ma'^t, hke this man, have labours and pams in vain, thai tend to no nae or advantage, that dft no good either to themselveis or others ; they must trarail, and labour, and work, and dig to hide their talent in the earth. They must tike him, at the Lord's coming, be coavicted out of their own mouths, be accused by their own hearts, and have every thing that they have said and thought of religion, be made to shew the justice of their condemnation to eternal dark- neas, weeping nod gnashing of teeth.

This is the purchase that they make, who avoid the strictnees and perfection of rel^on, in order to live- happily.

On the other hand, would you see a short description of Ihe happiness of a life rightly employed, wholly de- voted ^pliod, yon must look M the man in the pnrahle, to whom his Lord had given five talents: Lord, says he, lluttt 4Uiii>ered)i unto me five tatcntt : behold, I have gained besides them five talenls more. Ilii Lord said unto him. Well done thou good and /aithfvl senanl ; thou hast been faithfut over afea> ihiags, I wUl make (Jtee ruler over maTO/ things ; enter du>a into the Joy of thy Lord.

Here you see that a Uie that is wholly intent upon the improvement of the talents that is wholly devoted unto Gdd, is a state of happiness, prosperous labours, and glo- rious success. Here are not, a« in the former case, any uneasy passions, rourmurings, vain fears, and fruitless labours. The man is not toiling, and digging in the' e»rih for no end or advantage ; but his pious hibours prosper in his hands, his happiness increases upon bioi, the hlnt-siag of five becomes ihe blessing of ten talenls; and he is re- ceived i^h a Well done good and fiatlliful ser-jatit, eiiier thou into the joy of iky Lord.

Now as the case of these men in the parable left nothi

, ing else to their choice, but either to be Jmppy in using

their gifts' fo the glory of the Lord, or miserable by u^ng

them according to their own bmnours and fancies ; so the

State of Christianity leaves i{S no other choice. «

All that we have, all thai we arej all 'hat we enjoy,



14» • A SERIOUS CALL TO A

are oalj to many talenla from Ood : if we me them to the ends of a pious aod holy life, our five tnleoU will become ten, aod our labours will carry us iDto the joy of our Lord; but if we abuse them to the gratification of our own paaeioDs, Bacrificing the gifts of God to our own pride and vanity, we shall IKe here in vain labours and fooKsh anxieties, shtiouing religion as a melancholy thing, accusing our Lord as a hard master, and then faU into everlasting misery. •

We may for awhile amuse ourselves with names, and sounds, and shadows of happiness ; we may talk of this or that greatness and dignity ; but if we desire real happi- ness, we have do other possible way to it, but by improi^ ing our talents, by so hoUly and piously using the powers and faculties of men in this present state^ that we may be happy and glorious in the powers ^nd faculties of sngela in the world to come.

How ignorant therefore are tbey of the nature of re- ligion, of the nature of njan, and the nature of 0^ who think a life of strict piety and devotion to God, to be a dull and uncomfortable state ; when it is so plain and cer- tain, that there is neither comfort or joy to b« found tn any thing else 1



CHAP. XII.

The bBppineiB of a life wholly devoted unto God. fartlier proved, bom the nmify, the tmnuJify, and the ridicuimu, poor eojoy- leents, which thev ate forced to take up with, who live accord- ing to their own humotui. This represented in varioui chiti-

WE may still see more of the happiness of a life devoted unto God, by considering the poor contrivancea for happiness, and the contemplible ways of life, whjcb they are thrown into, who are not under the directions of a Btiic piety, but seeking after happiness by other methods.

If one looks at ttieir lirei, wko lire by no rule but



i^Googlc



BEVOUT AMD HOLT LIFE. U7

their otra humoara aad fancier ; if one 3e«s but what it is, which they call joy, and greataess, aDd happipess; if one sees hoiv they rejoice and repent, chaog^e and fly from one delusion to another ; one shall find great reason to rejoice, that God hath appointed a strait and narrow way that leadeth unio IHe, and that we are not lefl to the folly of our own minds, or forced to take up with such shadows of joy and happiness, as the weakness and folly of the world has ioventod. I say invented, because those tilings #htcb make up the joy and happiness of this world, are mere inventions, which have no foundation in nature and reason, are no way the proper good or happi- Bcis of man, no way perfect either in bis body, or bis mind, or carry him tq his true end.

As for instance, when a man proposes to be happy in ways of ambition, by raising himself to some imagin- ary heights above other people ; this is truly an inven- tion of happiness which has no foundation in nature, bat iaAmere a cheat of our own making, as if a man shoul^mtcnd to make himself happy by climbing up a ladder.

If a woman seeks for happiness from fine colours or ipots apoa her face, from jeweb and rich clothes, this Is as merely an inTenlion of happiness, as contrary to na- ture and reason, as if she should propose to make herself happy, by painting a post, and putting the same finery opon it. It is in this respect that 1 caH these joys and happiness of the world, mere inventions of happiness, because neither God, nor nature, nor reason hath appoint- ed them as such ; but whatever appears joyful, or great, or happy in them, is entirely created or invented by the blindness and vanity of our own minds.

Anil it is OD these inventions of happiness, that I desire you to ca^t your eye, that you may thence learn, how great a giDod religion is, which delivers you from such a multitude of follies and vain pursuits, as are the torment and vesation of minds that wander from their true happi- ntss in God.

Look at Flatus, and learn how miaerable they are, who are left to the folly of their own passions.

Flatus is rich and in health, yet always uneasy, and always iearching after happinesi. Every Ume you virit



148 A SEWOUS CALL TO A

him, you finiJ lome new project io his head ; he is eager upoa it, aa somelliing that is more worth his while, «ini will do more for him, than any Ihii^ that is already past. Every oew thing ao seizes him, that if you was to take him from it, he woulJ think himself quite undone. His sanguine temper, and strong paseitns, promise him so much happiaees in t^very thing, that he is always cheated, and is S3ti>i|ied with nothiag.

At his lirdt setting out in life, fine clothes were his de- light, his inquiry was only after the best tailors and pe- ruke-makers, and he had no thoughts of excelling in any ' thing but dress. He spared no expense, but carried ev- ery nicety to its greatest height. But, this happiness not answering his expectations, he left otf his brocades, pat on a plain coat, railed at fops and beaux, and gave binv- self up to gaining with great eagerness.

This pew pleasure satisfied hiro for some time, he en- , Tied no other way of life. But being by the fate of pluy - drawn. into a duel, where he narrowly escaped MUeatfa, hq left off the dice, and sought {(Si happiness nT longer amongst the gamesters.

The next thing that seized his wandering imagination, was the diversions of the town: and for more 'than a twelvemonth, you heard him talk of nothing but ladies, drawing-rooms, birth-nights, plays, balls, and assembliea. . But growing sick of these, he bad recourse to hard drink- ing. Here he had many a merry night, and met with ' Stronger joys -than any he had felt before. Here he had thoughts of setting up his staff, and looking out no farther; but unluckily falling into a fever, he grew angry at all •trong liquors, and took his leave of the happine^ of be- ing drunk.

The next attempt ailer happiness, carried him iDlo the field ; for two or three years nothing was so hapipy ^ hunting; he entered upon it with all his soul, and leaped more hedges and ditches than had ever been known in go short a time. You never saw him but i[i a green coat ; he was the envy of all who blew the horn, and always spoke to his dogs in great propriety of language. If you meet him at home in a had day, you would hear him blow his horn, and be entertained with the surprising accidents of the last Dohle chase. So sooner had Flatus put-



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. 149

jone all the world in the breed aad education of his dogs, built neir kennels, nen stables, and bought a new hunting' seat, but he immediately got sight of another happiness, hated the senseless ooise and hurry of buatii^, gave away his dogs, and was for some time after deqp in the plea- sures of building.

Now he invents new kind of dove-cotes, and has such contrivances in bis barns and stables, as were never seeji before : he wonders at the dutness of the old builders, ia wholly bent upon the improvement of architecture, and will hardly bang a door in the ordinary way. He telli his friends, that he never was so delighted in. any thing in his life ; that he bas more happiness amongst his brick and mortar, than ever he had at court ; and that he U contriving how to hare some little matter to do that way as long as he lives.

The nest year he leaves his house unfinished, com- plaiDs to every body of masons and carpenters, and de- voteS'lpDself wholly to the happiness of riding about. Aiier this, yon can never see him but on horse-back, and so highly delighted with this new way of life, that he woald tell you, give him hut his h«rse and a clean coun- try to ride in, and you might take all the rest to your- self. A variety of new saddles and bridles, and a great change of horses, added much to the pleasure of thii new way of life. But however, having afler some time tired botb himself and his horse's, the happiest thing he could think of next, was lo go abroad and visit foreign countries ; and there indeed happiness exceeded his im- agination, and he was only uneasy thai he had begun so fine a life no sooner. The next month he returned home, unable to bear «ny longer the impertinence of foreigners.

After this, he was a great student for one whole year ; he was up early and late at bis Italian grammar, (hat he might have the happiness of understanding tlie opera, whenever he should hear one, and not be like those on- reasonable people, that are pleased with they don't know what.

Flatus is very ill-natured, or otherwise, just aa his nf- fairs happen to be wben you visit him ; if you find him when some project is ^most worn out, you will find a



150 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

peevish ill-breil man ; bul if 70a had seen him just as be entered upon his riding regimea, or begua to escel in Bouxidiog of the hora, you had beeD saluted with great civility.

Flatus is now at a full stand, and, is doing what he never did in his life before, he is reasoniog and re- flectii^ with himself. He lofts several days, m con- sidering which of bis caat-ofif ivajs of Ufe he should try

But here a new project comes in to his relief. He is now liviDg upon herbs, and running about the country, to get himself into as good wind as any running footman in the kingdom.

1 have been thus circumstantial in so many foolish par- ticulars of this kind, becaiwe 1 hope, that every par- ticular folly that you see here, will naturally turn itself into an argument for the wisdom and happiness of a re- ligious hfc.

Ifl could lay before you a particular accon^ of all the circumstances of terror and distress, that daily attend a life at sea, the more parlicvlar 1 was in the account, the more I should pake you feel and rejoice in the hap- piness of living upon the land.

In like manner, the mo^e 1 enumerate the follies, aosieties, delusions, and restless desires which go through every part of a life devoted to human pasaions, and worldly enjoyments, the more you must be affected with that peace, and rest, and solid content which leligioa gives to the souls of men.

If you had but just cast your eye upon a madman, or ■ fool, it perbajH signifies little or nothing to you; but if you was to attend them for some days, and observe the lamentable madness and stupidity of ait their actions, this would ife an affecting sight, and would make you olten bless yourself for the enjoyment of your reason and

Just so, if you are only told in the gross, of th« folly and m ulness of a life devoted to the world, it makevlilile or no impression upon you; but if you are shewn hotv Huch people live every day ; if you see the continuil folly o'ld madness of all their particular ac- tions and deigns, this would be an affecting sight, and



c4iz=.JnGooglc



BKVOUT AND HOLY Lira. lit

make joQ bleas God, for IwTitig given y.ou a greater hap. pJQess to aspire ai)er. ,

So that cbaractets of this kind, the more folly aad ridicule they have in them, provided that (hey be but oatural, are moat useful to correct our miad» ; and there- fore are no where more proper than in books of devobon, and practical piety. And as in several cases ne best learn thejiature of things, by looking at that which ia contrary to them ; so pertups we best apprehend the ek- cellency o^wisdom, by contemplating the wild extrava- gaaces of folly.

1 ^alt therefore continue this method a little farther, and endeavour to recommend the happmess of pi«^ to you, by shewing you insaome other instances, bow mis- erably and poof ly they live, who live without it.

But you will perhaps say, that the ridiciildus, resiles^ life of Flatus, is not the common state of those who re- lign themselves up to live by their own humours, and neglect the strict rules of rehgion ; and that therefore it is not so great an argument of the happiness of a religious lifs, as 1 would make it.

I answer, that 1 am afraid it is one of the most gen- eral characters in life ; and that few people can read it, without seeing something in it that belongs to theoieelves. For tvhere shall we &nd that tviee and happy man, who has not been'eagerly pursuing diffarent appearances o^ happiness, sometimes thinking it was here, and sometimes there?

And if people were to divide their lives into particular stages, and ask themselves what they were pursuing, or what it was which they had chiefly in view, when they were twenty years old^ what at twenty-Sve, what at thir- ty, what at forty, whnt at iilty, and %a on, till they were brought to their last bed, numbers of people would find, that they had liked and disliked, and pursued as many different appearances of happiness, as are to be seen in the life of Flatus.

And thus it must necessarily be more or less with all those who propose any other happiness, than that which' arises from a strict and regular piety^

But. secondly, Let it be granted, that the generalitj



II, Google



- * »■

11,4, ' -A SERIOUS CALL TO A

of people, are not such restlesB, Hckte tempers as Fla- tu9i the liifference then is only this, Flatus is continual' ]y chan^ng and trying something new, bat others are contCDl with some one state ; they do not leave gaming^ and then fall to hunting. But they have so much stead- iness in their tempers, that some seek after no other happiness, but that of heaping up riches ; others grtw old in the sports of the field ; others are content to drink themselves to death, without the least inquiry ailer any other happiness. *

Noir is there any thing more happy or reasonable, in snch a life as this, than in the life of Flatus ? Is it not as great and desirable, as wise and happy, to be constant- ly changing from one thing to another, as to be nothing else but a gatherer of money, a hunter, a gamester, or tt drunkard all your life ?

Shall religion be looked upon as a burden, as a dnil and melancholy state, for Galling men from such happi- ness as this, to live according to the laws of God, to labour after the perfection of their nature, and prepare them- selves for an endless state of joy and glory in the presence of God?

But turn your eyes now another way, and let the trifling joys, the gewgaw happiness of Feliciana, teach you how wise they are, what delusion J;hey escape, whose hearts and hopes are fixed upon a happiness in Qod.

If you were to live with Feliciana but one half year, you would see all the happiness that she is to have a* long as she Uvea. She has no more to come, but the poor repetition of that which could never have pleased Dn>~<.', but throi^h a littleness of mind, and want of thought.

She is again to be dressed fine, and keep her visiting day. She is again to change the colour of her clolhes, again to have a new head-dress, and again put patches on her face- She is again to see who acts best at the play-house, and who sings finest al the opefa. She is again to make ten visits in a day, and be ten times in a d»y trying to talk artfully, easily and politely about nothijtg.

She is to be agam delighted with some new bshion;



i^Googlc



DEVOOT AM) HOLY LIFE. 153

aad agwi aogry at the change of some old one. Sbe is to be again at cards^ ^od gamiog at midDight, aod again in bed at nooQ. She is to be again pleased with hypocritical compliments, and again distnrbed wttlt|te- agtnary affronts. She is to be- again pleased witiTher good luck at gaming, and again tormented with the loss of her money. She is again to prepare herself for a hirth'night, and again see the town full of good com- paoy. She is ^aia to hear the cabals aod iatrigaes of the town, «gain to have secret intelligence of private amours, and early notice of mariii^es,. quarrels, and partings. , "

If you see her come out of her chariot more briskly than usual, converse with more spirit, tind seem fuller of joy than she was last week, it is because there is some surprising new dress, or new divenion, just conw to town.

These are all the substantial and regular parts of Fe- liciana's happiness ; and she never knew a pleasant day in her life, but it was owing to some one, or more of these things.

It is for this happiness, that she has always been deaf to the reasonings of religion, that her heart has been too gay and cheerful to consider what is right or wrong in regard to eternity ; or (o listen to -the sound of such dull words, as wisdom^ piety and devotion.

It is for fear of losing .some ^of this happiness, that she dares not meditate on the immortality of her soul, consi- der her relation to God, or turn her thoughts towards tdose joys, which makes saints aod. angels inhnitely happy in the presence and g4ory of God.

But now let it here be observed, that as poor a round of happiness as this appears, yet most women that avoid the restraints of religion for a gay life, mast be content with very small parts of it. As they have not Felieiana's fortune aod dgure in the world, so they most give away the comforts of a pious life, for a very small part of her happiness.

And if yon look info the world, and observe the lives ofthose women, whom no arguments aan persuade to live wholly unto God, in a wise and p-oiis employment of tbemselres, you will 6nd most of them to be such.



154 A SERIOUS CALL tO A-

u lose ail the comforts of religion, wilhoat gaiaiog the teath part of Feliciana's happiness. The; are such as spend their time and fortuoes only in mimicking: t^e plea- Btaes*of richer people ; and rather look and loDg after, thiin enjoy those delusions, which are only to be par- chased by considerable fortunes.

But if a woman of high birth, and great fortune, bar- ing read the Goiipel, should rather wish to be an under Bervant in some pious lamily, where wisdom, piel^, and _. great demotion, directed all the actions ofetiryday; if ibe should rather wish this, than to live at the top of Fe- liciana's happiness, I should think her neither mnd, nor melancholy ; but that she judged as rightly of the spirit of the Gospel, as if she had rather wished to be poor Lcc- earu3 at the gate, than to be the rich man clothed in purple »7tdjine Imeit, and faring siemptvously rvery day. '

But to proceed ; Would you know what a happioSBS it is, to be governed by the wisdom of religion, and be devoted to the joys and hopes of a pious life, look at the poor condition of Succus, whose greatest happiness, is a good night's restin bed, and a good meal when he is up. When be talks of happiness, it is always in such expres- sions, as shews you, that he has only ius bed and his din- ner in his thoughts.

This regard to his meals and repose, makes Succda 'order all the rest of his time with relation to them. He will undertake no business that-may hurry his spirits, or break in upon his hour^ of eating and rest. If he reads, it shall only be for half an hour, because that is sufficient to amuse the spirits ; and he will read something that may make him laugh, as rendering the body fitter for its food and rest. Or if he has at any time a mind to in- dulge a grave thought, he always has recourse to a use- fnl treatise upon the ancient cookery. Succus is an ene- , my to aH party matters, having made it an observation, that there is as good eating among the wbigs as the tones.

He talks coolly and moderately upon all subjects, and is as fearful of falling into a passion, as of catching cold; being very positive, that they are both equally injuriotifl to the stomach. If yon ever see'him more hot than or- fliBary, it is npon some provoking: oesasion, when Am



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. U6

dnptite about cookerj^runs very high, or in the defence uf some beloved dish, which has often made iiim happy. But he has been ^o long upon these subjecls, is so well ncqnainted nitb all that can be sai<^ on hotb sides', 4|d ha» so onen ajisnered all objections, that he generally decides the matter with great graTily.

Succua is very loyal, and as soon as ever he likes any wine, he drinks the king's health with all hts heaHi— Nothing could put rebellious tliought» into b.a beadf un- less he should live to see a proclamation against eating of pheasanrs e^e.

All the hours that are not devoted either to repose, or nourishment, are looked upon by Succus as waste or spare time. For this reason be lod^s near a coffee-house and a iHTero, that when he rises in Ibe^noming, he may hear the news, and nhen he parts at night, he may not have fir to bed. In the moming you always see him in the same place in the coffee-room, and if he seems more at- tentively engaged than ordinaryi it is beoiu.se >'bme cri- minal ie broke out of Newgate, or lome lady was robbed last night, but they cannot tell where. ^Vhen be has learned all that he can, be goes home to seUle the mat- ter with the barber''s boy, that comes to thave him.

The next waste lime that Ues upon his hands, is from dinaer to supper. And if melaocboly thoughts ever come into his bead, it is at this lime, when he is often letl to himeelf fpr an hour or more, and that after the greats est pleasure he knows is just over. He is afraid to sleep, because he has heard it is not healthful »t that time, so that be is forced to refuse so welcome a guesL

But here he is soon relieved by a settled method of playing at cards, till it is time to think of some little nice matter for supper.

After this, Succot takes his glass, talks of the excellen- v/ of the English constitution, and praises that minister the most, who keeps the best table.

Oo a Sunday night you may sometimes bear him con- demning the iniquity of the town rakes ; and the hitler- ~ «st thing that be says against them, is this, Ihnt he verily believes some of them are so sbaadoDed, as not to havo A regular. meal, or a sound night's sleep in e week.

At elevenj Succnt bids 'all good night, and parts in



JS8 A 8EB10US ALL TO A

gntit fri«D()shJp. He is preseolly in bed, and sleeps till it is time to go to the coffee-honse Deit moroing.

If you waa to live with Saccus for a twelvemonth, thii iS'MI that you noul<i sec in his life, except a few curses and onths that he uses in occasion offers.

And now 1 cainot help making this reflection :

That as I believe the most likely means tii the world to iitfjiirc a person with true piety, was to have seen the exiimple of some eminent professor of reli^on ; so the next thing that is likely to fill one with the same zeal, is to see the follj, the baseness, the poor satisfactions of a life destitute of rehgion. As the one exercises us to love and admire the wisdom, and greatness of religion, so the other may make us feart'iil of living without it.

For who can help btessing God for the means of grace, and for the hope oi^ glory, when he sees what T.iriety of foily they sink into, who live without it? Whn would not heartily engage in all the laboars and exercises of a pious life, be steadfast, immoveable, and always found- ing in the work of tlie Lord, when he sees what dull sensuality, what poor views, what gross enjoyments they are left to v/lto seek for happine^ iu other wavs.

So that whether we consider the greatness 'of religion, or the httleness of all other things, and the meanness of all other enjoyments, there is nothing to be found in the whole nature of things for a thoughtful mind to rest up- on, but a happiness in the hopes of religion. .

Consider now with yourself how unreasonably it is pretended, that a life of strict piety must be a dull and anxious state 1 For can it with any reason be said, that the duties and restraints of religion must render our Urea heavy and .melancholy, when they only deprive ua of such happiness, as has been here laid before you ?

Must it be tedious and tiresome to live in the continual exercise of charity, devotion and temperance, ' to act wisely and virtuously, to do good to the utmost of your power, to imitate the divine perfections, and prepare yourself for the enjoyment of Godt Must it be dull and .tiresome, to be dcliverad from blindness and vanity, from false hopes and vain fears, to improve in holiness, to feel jthe comforts of conscience in all your actions, to know tliat Go(l is your friend, that all must work for your



DEVOUT AND HOLT U7E. IST

^ood tbat neither lifener dealfa, neither men nor- devils caa do yon any barm ; but Ibat all your sufferings and doings, that are offered unto God, all your watchings and prayers, and labours gf love and charity, all your iHt- provements, ane in a abort time to be rewarded with eredasting; glory in, the presence of Uod; must such a slate as this be dull and tireeomi for want of such bappi- aess as Flatus or FeUciana enjoys ?

Nonif this cannot he said, then there is no happiness or pleasure lost, by being strictly pious, nor has' the de-. Tout BUn any thing' to<enTy in any other ^tate of life,— For all the art and contrivance in the world, without religion, cannot make' more of human hfe, or carry its happiness to any greater height, than Flatus or Feliciana have done.

The finest wit, the greatest genius Hp6n earth, if not governed by religion mast be as foolish, and low, and vaip in lus methods of happiness, as the poor Succus.

If you was to see a man d«lly endeavouring all his life to satisfy his thirst, by holding up one and the same empty cup to bis mouth, you would certainly despise his ignorance. ♦

Btit if you should see Others of brighter parts, and finer understandings, ridiculing the dull satisfaction of one cup, and thinking to satisfy their own thirst by a variety of gilt and golden empty cups; would you think that these were ever the wiser, or happier, or better em- ployed, for their finer parts!

Now this is all the difference that you cab see in the happiness of this life. ,

The dull and heavy soul niay be content with one empty appearance of happiness, and be continually try- ing to hold one and (he same empty cup to his mouth all bis life. But then, let the wit, the great scholar, the line genius, the great statesman, the polite gentleman, lay all their beads together, and they can only shew you more and various, empty appearances of happiness ; give them all the world into their hands, let tliem cut and carve as they please, they «an only make a great variety of empty cups.

So that if you do not think it hard to be- deprived of the pleasures of glutlony for the sake of religion, you



158 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

hav« D# reason to think it hard (o be restrifioei} from-aBj^ other worldly pleasure. For search as deep, and look ai far as you will, there is nothing here to be found, that 13 n«hler or greater than high egting and drinking, unless 5^011 look for it in Ihe wisdom and laws of i^ligion;

And if all that is in the world, are only *> many empty cups, what does it signify, which you take, or how many you t«ke, or how many you have J

If you would but use yourself to snch meditatioOs aa these, lo reflect upon the vanity of all orders of hfe with- out piety, to consider how all tfae #ays of the world, are so many different ways of error, blindness, and mistake, yon would soon find your heart made wiser and better by it These meditations would awaken your Soul into a xealous desire of that solid happiness, which is only to be foimd in recobrse to God,

Examples of great piety are not now common in the world ; it may not be your happiness to live within sigit of any, or to have your virtue inflamed by their hght * and fervour. But the misery and folly of Wjorldly men is what meets your eyes m every place, and you need not look far lo sei? how poorly, how vainly men dream away ttieir lives for want «f religious wisdom.

This is the reason that I have laid before you so many characters of the vanity of a worldly life, to teach you to make a benefit of the corruption of the age, and thitt you may he made wise, though not by the sight of what pie^ is, yet by teeing what misery and folly reigns, where piet^ is not.

If yoU"woulil turn your mind to such reflections as these, your own observation would carry this instruction much farther, and all your conversation and acquaintance, with the world, would be a daily conviction lo you, of the necessity of seeking some greater happiness, than all the poor enjoyments this world can give.

To meditate upon the perfection of the divine attri- butes, to contemplate Ihe glories of heaven, to consider Ih* joys of saints and angels living tor ever in the bright- ness and glory of the divine pr«sence ; these are the med- itations of souls advanced in piety, and not so smted t» •Twy oapacity.



,„aoogic



' ■ W:VOUT AM) HOLT UFJ% IM -

Bat to ^e« and consider the emptiness uid error or all warily happineBS ; to see the grossneas of Bensnality, the poorness of pride, the etupiditj of covetousneaa, the van- itj of dress, the delusion of honour, the blindness 'of our pas«ion», the uncertainty of our Uybs, «ad the shortness of all noridl]' pnojects ; tbetie are meditationB that are ^ suited to all capacities, fitted to strike all minds; they 'require no depth of thought, no sublime speculation, but are forced upon m by all our senses, and taaght us by alnioat erery tbii^ that we see and hear. , This is that witdem that crieth, and puUelh forth her voice t» tht ttreets, that Prov. vUi, 1. standeth at all- our doors, that appealeth to all our senses, teaching ua in every thing end ereiy where, by all that we see, and all that we hear, by births and bariab, by sickness and health, by life -end death', by pains and poverty, by misery and vanity, and by all the changes and chances of life; that there is nothing else for man to look after, no other end in nature for him to drive at, but a happioess which is only to be found in the hop^ and expectations of religion.






not only a life ottanUg, or »(n*ualt'/y,hut «Tea tbtmtlrtfi- uiur kind uf life, that is not goieraed by grtat devotion, •uK' ciently aliewa ll> miieriei, it« wanf>, and tmplintu, to the eye* or all the world. This reproeiittd in various cliaracters.

IT is a very remarkable saying of our Lord oni Saviour to his disciples in these words : Blftied art your Ojea for they lee, and jour tan for they hear. They teach us two things; First, that the dullness and heaviness of men's minds, with regard to spiritual matters, is so great, that it may justly be compared to the want of eyes and

Secondly, that God has so filled every thing and eve- ry place with motives and ArgumenU for a godly hfej



leO A SERIOU9 CALI/ TO A

that they who are bat so bleesed, so happy as to vK their eyes aud their ean, must need be afl'ected with them.

Now, though this was in a aioFe especial maimer the , •aae of those whose seDses were witnesseii of the lUt and miracles aod doctrines of our blessed Lord; yet it is as truly the case of all ChnBtiaos at this time. For the reuoDs of reli^on, th« calls to piety aTe so nritten and .engraved upon every thing, and presenUlhemselyes so strongly and so constantly to all our senses in every thing that we meet; that they can only be disregarded by eyes that see not, and ears that hear not.

What grealermotive to a religious life, than the vanity, the poorness of all worldly enjoyments ; and yet who can help seeing and feeling. this every day of his life }

What greater call to look towards God, than tbe pains, the sickness, the crosses, aod vexations of tbu life ; and yet wttose eyes and ears are not daily witnesses ef them!

What miracles could more strongly appeal to onr senses, or what message from heaven speak lender to us, than the daily dying and departure of our fellow-creatures does? «

So that the one thing needful, or the great end of life, K not leil to be discovered by fine reasoning, and deep reflections ; but fs pressed upon us in the plainest man- ner, by the experience of all our senses, by every thing that we meet with in life.

Let us but intend lo see and hear, and (hen (he v world becomes a book of wisdom and instruction lo | all that is regular in the order of nature, all that i cideolnl in the course of things, all (he mistakes and dis- appointments that hajipen (o ourselves, all the miseries and errors that wc see in other people, become so many pljin lessons of advice (o us; teaching us with as much assurance as an angel from heaven, (hat we can no ways raise ourselves to any true happiness, but by turning all our thoughts, our wishes, and endeavours, after the hap- piness of another life.

It is this right use of the world that I would lead yoa into, by directing you to turn your eyes upon every shape of human folly, that you may- thence draw fresh



i^Googlc



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. lel

■Foments aod mottvea ofUriDglo (Kg best and ^^alest purpose of your crentioa.

■An:I if you would but carry this intention nbout yoa, or profiting by the follies of the world, and of learning &e greatness of religion, from the littleoesg and vanity of every other wayof life; if, I say,yau'would but carry " thb latention ia yonr mind, yoa would find every dny. •?ery place, and every person, a fresh proof of then wisdom, who cltoo^e tu live wholly untp God. You would then often return home, the wiser the better, and (ho more atr^ngthenei) in religion, by every thing that hai fallen in your way.

Octavtus la a learned, ingenious man, well vened in most parts of literature, and no stranger to any kiogdora in. Europe. The other day, being just recovered from a lingering fever, he took upon h>m to talk thus to hia Aiends.

' My glass, eays he, is almost mnont; Mid your eyea see how many mark^ of nge and death I bear about me : hufl plainly feel myself (inkiag away faster than any atander* by imagine. 1 fully beUeve, that one year<more will conclude my reckoning;. ^ •

■ The attention of his friends was mucS raised by such a declaration, erpecting to hear loQething Imly excel- lent from so learned a man, who Iiad bA a year longer to lire. When Oclavius proceeded in this manner r for these reasons, says he, my friends, I have left off all tav- erns, the wine of those places is not good enough for me ■■ tliis decay of nature. I must now be nice in what I drink ; I can't pretend to do as I have done ; and there- fore I am resolved to furnish my own cellar with a little of the tery best, though it cost me eversomuch.

I must also tell you, my friends, thafage fcrn^es a man to be wise in many other respects, and makes us change many of our opinions and practices.

You know how much 1 hare liked a large acquaigt- ance : I now condemn it as an error. Three or four cheer- ful, diverting companions, is all that 1 now desire ; be- cause 1 find that in my present intirmilies, if 1 am left alone, or to grave company, 1 am oot so easy to my> •etf. - .

- A few days after Octavius bad made this declaratioi] 14*



189 A SERIOUS GALL TO A

to hb friends, he relapaed into bis former illncsg, ffu GominUtei] to a nuree, who closed his eyes before his i)w«h parcel of nrae came io.

Yoang Eugenius, who wat< present at this disconne, went bome a new man, with full resolutioas of deroting ► himself wholly Unto God,

I never, says ,Eo^nius, was 30 deeply affected with tke wisdom and importance of relig^ion, as when I saw how poorly and meanly the learned Octavius was to l^ave the world through the want of it

How often had 1 envied his great learning', bis skill in language, his knowledge of antiquity, his address and fine manner of expressing himself upon allaubjacis! But when I saw bow poorly it all ended, what was to be the last year of such a life, and how foolishly the master of all these accomplishments was then forced to talk, for want of being acquainted with the joys and eipectatioiA ol' piety; I was thoroughly conrinced, that there was nothing to be envied or desired, but a life of ^e piety: nor any thing so poor and-comfortless, as a death without . it. .

Now as the young Eagenias was thus edified and ii^ structcdin the present case; so if you are so happy as to have any thii^ of his thoughtful temper, yon will meet with variety onistruction of this kind; you will find that a^umeuts for the wisdom and happiness of a stiict piety, oSer themselves in all places, and appeal to all year senses in the plainest manner.

You will find, that all the world preaches to an at> tentive mind ; ^id tba.t if you have but enrs to hear, al- most every thing you meet, teaches you some lesson of wisdom.

But now, if to these admonitions and instractions, which we receive Jrom our senses, from an experience of the state of human life; if to these we add the ligbil of religion, those great truths which the Son of God has taught us ; it will then he as much past all doubt, that there Is but one happiness for man, as that there is hut one God.

For since rel^ion teaches us that our souls are im- mortal, that piety and devotion will carry them to an eternal enjoyment of God; and that carnal, worldly



DBVCKTT ASD HOLY UB% 163

tempers will sink tbem iato an evetiaatiag misery mlb daamed spirits, irbat gross nonsense and stupidity it is to gire the name of joy or happiness -to mf thing hat thK which carries us to this joy and happiness itt Sod?

Was all to die with onr bodies, there might be some pretence for those different sorts of happiness, (bat are so much talked of: bnt since our all begins at the desith of our bodies ; since all men are to be immortal either in misery or happiness, in a word entirely different from this; since they are all hastening hence at all aofcrtain- ties, as fast as death can cut them down ; some in sick- ness, some is health, some sleeping. Some waking, some at midnight, others at cock-crowing, and all at hours &at they know not of; is it not certain that no man can exceed another in joy and happiness, but so &r at be exceeds him In those virtues which £t him for ■ bappier death? ^

Co^atus ia a sober, regular clergyman, of good re-' pate in the world, and well esteemed in his parish. AU his parishioners say he is an honest man, and very nota- ble at making a t^rgain. The farmers listen to him with great attention, when be talks of tl)y>roperest time of selling com.

He has been for twenty years a dilig^t observer of marlcets, and has raised a coDSiderabte^mlune by good management.

CognatuB is very orthodox, and full of esteem for our Engli^ liturgy ; and if he has not prayers on Wednes- days and Fridays, it is because his predecessor bad not used the parish to any such custom-

As he cannot serve both his livings himself, so be makes it matter of conscience to keep a sober curate upon one of tbem, whom be hires to take care of alt the souls in the parish, at as cheap a rate as a sober man can be procured.

Cognatus has been very prosperous all bis time ; but still he has bad the uneasiness and vexatioos that they have, who are deep in worldly business. Taxes, losses, crosses, bad mortgages, bad tenants, and the hardness of the times, are frequent subjects of his conversation; and a good or bad season has a great effect upon his spirits.

Cognatw bas do other end m growing rich, but Uiat



1S4 A 3EUOUS CALL TO k

be n;^ leare a coo^derable fortune to a niece, wfaaoa he has politely educated in espenaiTe fiaery, by what te has saved out of the ty the* of two liviugB.

The Deighhouis look upon Coraatas a« a hnppy der- gTm-in, becnuw they see him \m they tall it) in good circiimitances ; and some of them hMefldtn dedicate their own «ofl8 to the church, faecauM they see how well it ha* Hccneded with Cogfn.itU9, whoK fathsr was but an ordi- nary man.

But %ow if CogTta(a» when he firet entered ioto boiy orders, had perceived how ahsun) a thing it is to grow rich by lbeOo»pei: if he had proposed to hi ma elf the example of some piimitive father; if he had had the piety of the great St. Austin in his eye, whodurat not enrich uiy of hii relations out of the revenae of the church': if, instead of twenty yean care to lay up trea- sures upon e^th, he bad distributed the iBCome of ev- ery year in the most Christian acts of Charity and com- passion.

If, instead of tca[^>fii^ bis niece to be proud, and pro- viding her with such ornaments, as the apostle forbids, be h»d dothe^comforted, and assisted number^of wid- ows, oi^han**, and distressed, who were all to appear for him at the Ja^ day ;

[f, instead m the cares anil anxieties of bad boads, troublesome mortgages and ill bargains, he had had th« constant comfort of knowing that his treasure was secure- ly laid up, where neither moth cornipteth, oor thievet bretdc througb and steal ; could K with any reason be said, that be had mistaken the spirit and dignity of hit order, or lessened any of that happiness which is to be found ID hia sacred entptoymenta ?

If, instead of rejoicing in the -happiness of a second living, be had thought it as unbecoming the office of a clergymao to traffic for gain in holy things, as to open a shop ;

If be had thought it better to recommend some honest labour to his niece, than to support her in idleness bjr the lahoars of a curate; better that she should want fine clothes and a rich husband, than the cares of souls should be farmed about, and brother clergymen not suffered to Bve Igr ,tho»e altan at which thej serve. If this had



DEVOUT AMD HOLT LIFE. 169

been tbe- spirit of Ct^stna, cAuld it with an; reaton be ■aid, that tbese rales of rebgioQ, this strictness of piety, had robbed Cognatus of any real happiness 1 Couldilt be- said, that a life tfaw goTcrned by the spirit of the Gospel, must be dall and n>elancholy, if Com[Kired to that of raisii:^ a fortune for a niece ?

How as this cannot be sojd in the present case, so in every other kind of life, if you enter into the particntare of it, you will dnd, that however easj and prosperous it nay seem, yet you cannot add piety to any part of it, without adtting so much of a better joy and happiness to it

Looknowatthat condition of life which draws the envj ef all eyes.

Negetius ia a temperate honest man. He served his time under % master of great trade, but has by his own management made it a more considerable bu«ness than ever it was before. For thirty years last past, he has wrote fifty or sisty letters in a week, and is busy in cor- responding with ail parts of Europe, The general good of trade seems to Negolius to be tfe jer.ard good of life; whomsoever he admires, whatever he co^piends or coq. demns, either in church or state, is admired, commended, or condemned, with some regard to trade—^

As money is continually pouring in up5n him, so he oilen lets it go in various kinds of expense and generosity, and sometimes In ways of charity,

Negolius is always ready lo join in any pubhc contri- bntion : if a purse is making at any place where he hap- pens to bo, whether it be lo buy a plate for a horse-raCe, or to redeem a prisoner out of jail, you are always sure of having something from him.

He has given a fine ring of bells to a chQ1:1^h in the country: and there is much eupectation that he will some time or other make a more beautiful front lo the market-house, than has been seen in any place. For it is the generous spirit of Negotius to do nothing in a mean

If you ask what it is that has secured Negotius from all scandalous vices, it is the same thi:^ that has kept him from nil strictness of devotion, it is his great bminessk He has always had too many important things in hn {'



iU A SERIOUS CALL TO k

head, his thoughU have beea too much employed to saC- fer liirn tg fall either into any coune of rakerj, or to feel tife necessitj of an inward, solid piety.

For thii reason he heats of the pleuures of debaach- ery, and the pleasures of pietj, nith the same iiMllfier- cnce ; and has no more desire of liviitg in the one than in the other, heeause neither of them consist with tbst ^ujqB of mind and multiplicity of business, which are hii happiness.

If Negotius was a^ed, what it is tfast he drires at- in life 1 he would be as much at a loss for an answer, as If he was asked, what any other pefson is thinking i^- — Tor though he always seems to fajmself to know what he is doing, and has many things in his head, which are the motives of bia actions; y«l he cannot tell you of any one general end of life, that he has chosen with de- Uher^oD, as beiag truly worthy of all his laboitf and pains. "

He has several ci»>fuied notions in his head, which have been a toi^ time there ; such as these, viz. Tha' it is BomeUuiis; great to Imt? more business than other people, to haM more dealing (^on his hanus than rd hundred of the same profession; to grow conlinuall/ rlclier and ric^r, and to raise an immense fortune before he dies. Th"lhing that seems lo give Negotius the greatest Ufe and ^irit, and to be most in his thoughts, is an expectation that he shall die richer than any o( hw business ever did.

The ffenerality of people, when they think of happi- oess, think upon Negotius, in whose life every inst.iiice of happiQoaa is supposed to meet i sober, prudent, ncii, prosperous, generous, and kharitable.

Let us now therefore look at this condition in another but truer light. \ Let it be supposed, that this same Negotius «M »

E sinful, laborious man, every day deep in variety of **■ lirs ; that he neither drank nor debauched, but was sober and regular in hit business. Let it be supposed that he ifrew old in this course of trading ; and that the enl and design of all this labour, and care, and application to l»u»ineM, was only this, that be might die po«e«e^ **



c4v=..inGoogli;



DEVODT ftND HOLY- LIFt. 187

more than a hundred tbousand paira of boots and spurs, and a» many great coats.

L^t it be supposed, that the sober part of the worU say of bun when h« is dead, (bat he was a ^reat and happy man, a tborough master of btfWnesn, and had ao qair4*d a hundred tbousand pairs of boots and spurs when

Now if this was really the case, ! believe it wouldlb* readily granted, tkat a life of such business was as poor and ridkulous as any that can b« invented. Dut it would PDZzle any one to shew, that a mao Ibnt has spent all his time and thoughts in business. and hurry, that he might die, ns it is said, worth a hundred thousaod pounds, is any whit wiser than be, who bas taken the same pains to have as many pairs of boots mtd spurs when be leaves tbe world,

Forif the temper and stete of our souls he our whole state ; if the only end of life be to die as free from sin, and as exalted in virtue as we en; if naked as we came, so naked are we to return, and to stand a trial before Christ, and his holy angels, for everlasti:^ happinees or misery ; what can it possibly signify what a man had, or had not, in this world ? What can it signify what you* call those things which a man has leA behind bini ; wheth- er you call them his, or any one's else ; wHfether you call them trees or fields, or birds and feathers ; whether you call them an hundred tbousand pounds, or a hundred thousand pair of boots and 5purs? I say, call them; for the things signify do more to him than the names. ' I4ow it is easy to see the folly of a life thus spent, to famish a man with such a numher of boots and spurs. But yet there needs no better faculty of seeing, no finer understanding, to see the folly of a life spent in making a man a possessor often towns before he dies.

For if when he has got all his towns, or all his boots, bis soul is to go to his own place among separnte spirits, and his body be laid by in a coffin, till the last trumpet calls him to judgment ; where the -inquiry will be, how humbly, bow devoutly, how purely, how meekly, how {Hon^y, how charitably, bow heavenly we have spoke, ^bought and acted, whilst we were in the body ; bow can (re say, that he whs has wore out Ws life m raising »



t«6 M vtaam cill to i

hundred tboa«md ponndi, hai acted wiser for himBell^ than he wbo has bad the sane care to procure a haodred thousand of aDji thing else ?

But farther : Let it now be etippofted, that Negotius, vhen be fint eutend into businesa, bappeninj; to read the gospel with attention, and eyes open, found that he bad a much greater business upon hja hands, than that to which he had served an apprenticeship : that there were things which belong to man, ef much greater im- portance than all that our eyes can see ; «o glorious as to deserve all'oar thongbts ; so dangeroui, ai to need all our care ; and so certain, as never to deceive the faithiul labourer.

Let it be supposed, that from reading this book, he had discovered that his soul was more to him than his body ; that it was better to grow in the virtues of the soul, than to have a large body or a full purse ; that it was better to be lit for heaven, than to have a varie^ of fine houses upon the earik ; that it was better to secure an everlasting happiness, than to have j^enty of tbinga which he cannot keep ; better to live in habits of hainil- ity, piety, devotion, chanty, and self-denial, than to Se unprepared for judgment ; better to be most Uke our Saviour,-or some eminent saint, than to excel all the tradesmen fci the world m bosiness and bulk of for-

Let it be supposed, that Negotius believing these things to be true, entirely devoted himself to God at his first setting out in the world, resolving to pursue his busi- ness no farther than was consistent 'Vit^ great devotion, humility, and self-denial j and for no other ends, but to provide himself with a sober subsistence, and to do all the good that be could, to the souls and bodies of hii fellow-creatures.

Let it therefore be supposed, that instead of the con- tinual hurry of business, he was frequent in his retire- ments, and a strict observer of all the hours of prayer ; that instead of restless desires aAer more riches, his soul had been full of the love of God and heavenly affection, constantly watching against worldly tempers, and al- ways aspiring after divine grace ; that instead of worldly , ^ otfxm and contrivances, he wa« busy in fortifying hv



c4v=.JnGooglc



DWOUT -AHD HOLY Utli. 16»

soul againBt all apfo-oacbes of sin ; that instead of ctitfljr show and espensive generosity of a splfindid life^e loved and exercKed all inetances of humility and lowli- ness ; that JDElead of great treats and full tables, hie bouse only furnished a sober refreshment to those that wanted it.

Let it be supposed, that his contentment kept hlro free from all kinds of envy. That liis piety made him thank- ful to God in all crosses and disappointments. That his charty kept him from being rich, by a. coetinual distri- bution to all olijcct* ol' compassion.

Now had this been the Christian spirit of Neg^ntiui, •an any one say, that he had lost the tniejoy and hap- piness of lile, by thus coafbrmin^ to the spint, and living up to th«> hopes of the Gospel 1

Can it be said, that ii life made exemplary bj suck Ttrtues as ihose, which keep heaven ulways in our sight, which both dt'Ught and eselt tbe soiil here, and prepare it for the presence ofOod hereafter, must be jtoor and dull, if compared to that of heajiing np riches, which can neither slay with us, nor we with them ?

It would be endless to mnlliply examples of this kind, to shew you how little is lost, aud how miicb is gained, by introducing a strict and exact piety into every condi- tion of human hfe.

I shall now therefore leave it to your own me<titation, to carry this way of thinking farther, hoping that yoa are enough directed by what is here said, to convince yourself, that a true and exalted piety is so far from ren- dering any life dia^mi^ tiresome, that it is the only joy and happiness of OTfiry condition in the world,

imagine to yourself some person in a consumption, or any other lingering distemper that was incurable.

If you was to see such a roan wholly intent upon do- jog every thing in- the spirit of religion, making the wisest. use of all his time, fortune and abilities; if he~ was for carrying every duty of piely to its greatest height, and striving to have all the advantage that cou!d be had from the remainder of his life ; if he avoided xll business, but such as was necessary ; if he was averse to all the follies and vanities ef the world, had no taste :for finery aod shew, but sought for all his coialbrt in the



■UOUB CALL TO A

DM of religion ; yon would cettator dence, jttxi would snj, that be baj hod to make himsaiir as joyful and A be m a itate of such infirniiiy. , if you should see the eatne person, I, short breath, thin jaws, aod hollow upon husinesi and bat^ains, a» long r jou should see him pleased with e could scarce staud to be dressed, oney in horses and dogs, rather tbap ) of the poor for t^ soul, which was Led from bis body, you would cer> as a weak, silly man. •

» see the reason a bleness, the wisdom :ligious spirit in a coDsumptive mail ;

'same way of tbiokiDg, you will ai >ame wisdom and happioess of a pi- other state of life.

evwy man that ii in health, be in lat is in a coosumptioD ? How sooa

same comforu and satisfactions of f dying mau wants ? md bappy to live piously, because

a year to hve, is it not being more urselves more happy, because we rs to come ? If one year of piety be- esirable, is not more years of piety

filed years to live, he could not , without iiiteadiiw>to make the best hen he saw his ^y so short in thia Is think that tbl' was not a world

he saw how near he was to an- as eternal, he must surety (hlnk it >e veiy diLgent in preparing hiin.

le a« piety appears in sucb a cir- isyet more reasonable in eveij cic- every thinking man. adman can reckon that he has five ae? lonabU and nsoeiuiy I* den; eoV



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIIS. 171

WOTldl^empers, and lire nholl]' unto God, becaiis|||re iravertaia that we ere to die at the end of tire years; > turely it must be more reasonable and necessary for ui to lire in t Je same spirit, because ne hare no certain^ tfaxt we shall lire five weeks.

Again, If we were to add twenty years to the fir«, which is in all probability more than will be added to flie lives of many people who are at man's estate ; what a poor thing is this ! how small a diSerence is there be- twaen fire and twenty-five years !

It IS said, that a day is with God as a thousuid years, and a thousand years as one day ; because in regard to ' Ids eternity, this diSerence is as nothing.

Now y we are all created to be eternal, to live in an tttdless succession of ages upon a^es, where thoniands, a&d millions of thousand of years will hare no proportion to oar everlasttng life in God ; so with regard to thii eternal state, which is our real state, twenty-lire years is as poor a pittance as twenty-fire days. -

Now we can never make any true judgment of time 19 it relates to us, without considering the t^ue state of our duration. If we are temporary beings, then a little time may justly be called a great deal in relation to us ; but if we are eternal beings, then the difference of a few jeare is as nothing.

If we were (o suppose three different sorts of rational beings, all of different but-fixed duration, one sort tbat lired certainly only a month, the other a year, and the third a hundred yeag;

Now if these^|H| were to meet together, and talk about time, tli^y miisf'talk in a very different language; half tm hour to those that were to live but a month, must be a very differeot thing, to what it is to those who are lo live n huadred years.

As therefore lime is thus a difierent thing with regard to the state of those who wijoy it, so if we would know what time is with regard to ourselves, we most consider Mr state. "

Now since o<ir eternal state is as certainly ours, m •ur present state ; since we are as certainly to bve for ever, as we now lire at all ; it isl^lain tbat we cannot jttd|^ of th« value of bo; partitular lime, m to us, bdjt



ITS A SERIOUS CALL TO A

b!)M)mpttring it to that et«m>l duration /or nUSwe tav created.

It'^ou woiitd kDovr, what fire yean fugoafy to abein|; (hat wii to lire a huD<lred, you niMst compare fire to a hundred, and «ee what proportion H beara to it, aad then 70U trill judg^e right.

So ifyou would kaow what twenty years si^fy to a ' ion of Adam, you must compare it, not to a miUrOn of ogca, but an eternal duration to which no Dumber of mil- lions heara any proportion ; and then you will judge right by linding nothing.

Consider therefore this ; how would jou condemn the folly of a man, who should lose big share of future glory^ lor the Rake of being rich, or great, or praised, y dsl^ht- ed m any enjoyment, only one poor day before he wa» to die.

But if the lime will come, when a number of year§ will seem le^s to every one, than a day does now ; what acon- demnnlion must it then be, if eternal happiness Hhould appear to be lost, for somethii^ less than the enjoyment

Why doea a day aeem a trifle to us now ? It is becaustt ive have years to set a^inst it. It is the dfifatioa of yearft that makes it appear as nothing.

What a trifle, therefore, must the years of a man's age appear, wlieo they are forced to be set against eternity^ when there shall be nothing but eternity to compare then will).

Now this will be the case of mhv man, as soon aj he is out of the body ; he will b^HPed to foi^t the distinctiom of days and years, and to measure time, not by the course of the sun, but by setting it against eternity.

A^ the fixeil slare, by reason of our being placed at such distance from them, appear but as so many points ; so when we are placed in eternity, shall look back upoti all time, it will all appear but as a moment.

Then a luxury, an indulgence, a prosperity, a great- ness of fitly years, will seem to every one that looks back upon it, as the same poor short enjoyment, as if he had been snatched away iShis first sin.

These few reflections upon time, arc oaiy to ihem



'£,



DfivooT Aim aoLr lipg. iiy

bowfonlytbey tUnk, how raberablj th^ jadgc, JB» are lew, careful of aaeternat' state,, because they ma^be at some years distance from it, than they would be, if the/ koeir they were- within a few weeks of itr.



Coacerains that pari of ilefotidn which relateg to Itnu/ and hum tXpraytr. Of dailjr lariy prayer in the morniog. How we are to iniHh* OM farmt of "prajer, and how to incraue the ipirit ■f deTotion.

HAVINO in the foregoing chapters ahewa th« necessUy of a devout spirit, or habit of mind in eveiy part of oar comtnon Lfe, ia the dischai^e of all our busi- ness, in the use of all the gifts of God : I come now to consider thftt part of deyotioa, which relates to times end hours of prayer.

I take it lor granted, that every Christian, who w in health, is up early in the morning ; for it is much more reasonable to suppose a person up early, because he is a Christian, thaa because he is a labourer, or B tradesman, or a servant, or has business that wants . -him.

We naturally conceive some abhorrence of a man that 19 in bed, when tM^Atnild be at bis labour, or in his shop. We cannot tell botv to thibk any thiag good of bim, whs is such a slave to drowsiness, as to neglect his busineM for it.

Let 'this therefore teach us to conceive, how odious we mujl appear in the sight of Heaven, if we are in bed, i^ul up in deep and darluiess, when we should be prais- ia^ Ood ; and are such slaves to drowsiness, as to neglect our devotions for it. ~

For if he is to be blamed as a slolhfiit dfdne, that rather chooses the lazy indulgence of steep, than to per- form his proper share of norldljI^bnMDess ; how much is he to be reproached, who had rather lie folded up in 16*



■n* A SERIOUS CALL TO A'

iTflll, thnn be rai^D^ op his heart to God in acta of praise anTador.itioQ ? ■

Prayer is the nedrest approach lo God, and the highest CDJoyment of htm, that we ate capable of in this iife.

It IS Ihe noblest exercise of the soul, the most exalted use of our best faculties, and the highest estimation q^ the blessed inhabilanls of heaTen'.

When our hearts are full of God, sending up holj desires to the throne of grace, we are then in oar highest state, we are irpon the utmost heights of bumHR greatness ; we are not before kings and princes, but in the presence and audience of the Lord of all the world, and can be no higber, till death is swallowed ap in glory. 4

On the other hand, sleep is the poorest, dnlleat re- freshment of the body, that is so far from being in- tended as an enjoyment, that we are forced to receive ft either in a state of insensibility, or in the folly of dreams.

Bleep is such a dull, slopid state of existence, that even amongst mere animals, we despise them mostf which are most drowsy. He therefore who chooses to enlni^e the flolhful indalgence of sleep, rather than be early at bis dcTotions lo God, chooses the dullest refreshment of the body, before the highest, noblest employment of the soul ; he chooses that state, which is a reproach to mere ani- nals, rather- tbian that exercise, which is the gloiy of

You will perhaps «ay, though yo^tfee late, yet you are always careful of your devoHV when you arc np.

It may be so. But-whatthen ? Is it well done ofyoa to rise late, because you pray when you are up ?- Is it panlonable to waste a great part of the day in bed be- «au8e some time after you ray your prayers ?

It is as much your duly to rise to pray, as to pray when you are risen. And if you are late at your prayers, you offer to God the prayers of an idle, slothful wor- shipper, that pi*es to prayers, as idle servants rise to their labour.

Farther, If youfaid^ that you are careful of your de- Yotions, when you are up, though it be your cmtom to



DEVOUT AKD HOLT LIFE. fife

eise 1«te, yon <1eceive yotireelf ; for you cannot peiUfui roar devotions as you ou^bt. For he that cnnnot deny himsetf this drowsy indnlgence, bat must paw away good part ofihe morning; in it, ia no more prjpared for prayer irben he is up, than he is prepan'd for fnttling, al>^ti- Dence, or any other SeltVlenial. He miy indeed more easily read over a form of prayer, than he can perform . these duties ; but he is no more disposed in enter inio \ the true spirit of prayer, than h*' is d;,'po<ied to fasting. For sleep thus indulged, gives a softness and idleness to all our tempers, and make^ us unable lo rehsh any thi:^, but what suits with an idle state of mod, and gTiitifies our natural teiiipera as sleep doei. So that a person t^t is a slave lo th.s idleness, is in the same tem- per when he is up; anil though he is not asleep, yet he is under the effects of it : -ind every thing .that is idip, indulgent, or sensual, pleases him for the same^zeason that sleep pleases him; and on the other hand, cveiy thing that requires care, or trouble, or self-denial, is hfttnul to him, for the same reason that he hates to rise. He that places aay happiness in this morning indulgence, would be glad to have al) the day made happy m the same manner; though not with sleep, yet with such enjoyments as gratify and indulge the body in the same manner as sleep does; or, at least, with such as come as near to it as they can. The remembrance of a warm bed is in his mind ail the day, and he is glad when he ia not doe of those that sit starving in a church.

Now you do not imagine that such a one can truly mortify that bodyJUSitih he thus indulges ; yet you might as well think this, as that h« can truly perfonn his devo- tions; or live in such a drowsy state of indu^ence, and yet relish the joys of a spiritnat life.

For surely no one will pretend to say, that he knows and feels the true happiness of prayer, who does not think i( worth his while to be early at it.

It is not possible in nature for an epicure to be truly devout; he must renounce this habit of sensuality, before he can relish the happiness of de*otion.

Now he that turns sleep into an idle indulgence, doei *s nwKh to corrupt and disorder Ms soul, to mal-e it a riave to bodily appetites, and keep it incapable of all



Vm A SQUOW CALL TO A j

AlUpnt and heavenly tempen, u he that tarni the neeeir | cities of eab^ lot* a coune'of iDdulgence. j

A person that eaU aad dhnk« too much, does not feel i ■nch effects ^m it, as those do who live in ^torious iastances of gluttony and intemperance ; bat yet bin eorirse of indulg^ence, though it be not Bcandalous tn the eyes of the vrorld, nor such as torments his own conscience, is a great and constant hmdrance to his improrement in vir- tue ; it gives him eyes that see not, and ears that bear oot ; it creates a sensunhty in the soul, increases the poir- er of bodily passions, and makes him incapable of mitering into the true spirit of rehgioo. ;

Now this IS the case of those who'waste their time i* | ■leep ; it does not disorder Uieir Uvea, or wopBd their consciences, as notorious acts of intemperance do ; but li^c ai}/j>Uter more moderate course of indulgence, it sileBtk^U^lay smaller degrees, wears away the spirit qi , religiSS^and sinks the soul into a state of duloess and ■ensuafity.

If you consider derotion only as a time of so- mnch prayer, you DWy perhaps perform it, thoogh yon live HI this daily indulgence ; but if you cooeider It as a stal« of the heart, as a lively fervour of the soul, that is deeply a0bcted with a sense of hi* own misery and inOrmities, ■Dd desinng the spirit of God more than all things in the world, you will And that the spirit of indulgence, aud the ^irit of prayer, cannot subsist together. Mortifi- cation of all kinds, is the very bfe and soul of piety, bat he ibat has not so small a degree «f it, as to br ■ble to be early at his prayers, can have no reason tft think that be baa taken up his cross, and ia follomr Christ.

What conquest has he got over himself! What right hand has he cut off? What trials ia he prepared forf What sacrifice is he ready to offer unto God, nbo caono^ be so cruel to himself, as .to rise to prayer at such time ai the drudging part of the world are content to rise to their labour ?

Soaie people will not scruple to tell yoUj that they in- •dulge themselves in sleep, because tliey have nothing to do ; and thai if thej^ had either business or pleas)^ to Ase to they would not ioae so much of their time ia sleeai.



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. , Iff

j But Sttcb people must be told, that th«jr mistake Ote

I Hoatjer'; that thej have a great deal ol btisiaesa to do;

they hare a 4iardened heart to chan^ ; they have the

wiiole spirit oWeligion to get. For surely, he that tbmks

i devotioQ to be of less monftent than business or plea.iure;

or (bat he haA nothing to do, because nothing^ but hi»

I prayers want him, may be justly said to have the whole

■pint of religion to seek. I Voii must not therefore consider hoi* small a crime

it is to rise kle, but you muHt consider how great R mis- I ery it is to want the spirit of religion ; to have a heart ; lu^ rightly affecled with prayer ; and to 'ive in eticb ; flonnes-s and idleness, es makes you incapable of the : D]o>it fuadamentaldutiesof a truly Christian and spiritual ' ! life.

I . This is the right way of jud^og of the ciUK of wa«t- j log great part of your time in Iwd. ' "^^ *.

i You must not consider the thing ba^e^^ in itseft but , what it proceede from ; what virtues it slAws to b<nvan(- i iog; what vices it naturally strengthens. Forevery habit i pf this kind discovers the state of the soal, 'and plainly : shews the whole turn of your mind- ' If onr Messed Lord used to pray early before day; , < if he spent whole nighte in prayer; if tbe devout Anna was day and night in the temple : if St. Paul and Silaft 'at midaighl sang praises unto Tjiod; if the primitive ■ <!?hnstians, for several hundred years, beside their boura ofprayerin tfie day-time, met publicly in the churchea ' ttt midnight, 4o join in psalms and prayer*, is it not cer- tain that these praetttRs shewed the state of tbi?ir hearts? "^m they not so many plain proofs of the whole turn of ;heir minds. j^

And if you live in a contrary state, wasting great pari of every day in sleep, thinking any time soon enongh tn 4>e at your prayers; is it not equally certain, that this practice as much shews the state of your heart, and the whoWlum of your mmd ? I So that if this indulgence is your way of life, you hava as much reason to believe yourself destitute of the-true ■pirit of devotion, as yoii have to believe the apostlet andJIItnts of the primitive church were truly devont. — For as their wajr of lite was a demoostration of tbe^



Sn. A SERIOUS CALL TO A

4orotioa, lo a C0DlnF7 way of life ia as Btrong a proof of a want of devotiOQ.

Whea you read the Seriptures, 70U see a religion that is all life, and •pint, and J07 in God ; tti«t suppoaea our loui risen from earthly desirea, and hodily indulgences, . to prepare for another ix»dy, anoUier world, and «thec- fiojojinents. You see ChristianB represented as -leinples of the Holy Ghost, as childreo of the day, as candidate* for an eternal crown, as watchful virgins, that have their lamps always burning in expectation of the bridegroom. But can he be thought to have this joy in God, this care of eternity, this watchiul spirit, who has not zeal enoagfli to rise to his prayers ?

When you locJt into the writmgs and lives of the firat Christians, you see the same spirit that you see in the ScripturM, All is reality, life, and action. Watching! and te^fi^ Klf-denial and mortification, was the common busif^aaof th^ lives.

Ffbn that liee to this, there has been no person like tbem, emiaent for piety,-who has not, like Ihem, been eminent for self-denial and mortification. This is- th« •nly royal way that leads to akingdom.

But how far are yon from this way of life, or rather how contrary to it, if, instead of imitating their austerity and mortification, you cannot so much as renounce so I

floor an indulgence, as'to be able to rise to yOur prayers T | , f self-denials and bodily sufferings, if watchings and fast- | ii^, will be marks of glory at the day of judgment, where j must we hide our heads, that have slamhwed anay our tune in sloth and softness ? i

' ^° " perhaps now find some pretences to excnse | ■ y«ij>elf from that severity of fasting and seltdenial, which the first Christians practised. Ton fancy that I human nature is grown weaker, and that the difference of climates may make it not possible for you to observe I their methods of self-deoial and austerity, ia these colder •oun tries. ■

But all this is bnt pretence { for the change is not in the outward state of things, but in the inward state of «ur minds. When there is the same spirit in us, that there was In the apastles and primitive Cbristiansi^|tiien w«fe«l tbfi weight of rehgion, u they did; wMR w«



..,.;Gf>;5lc



DEVOUT ABD HOLT UHE. lj»

bave tbeir faith aa<l hope, we shall take np our ctoh and den; ourselves, apd live ia each methods of mortification as they did. .

Had St. Paul Uved in a cold counti;, had he had a constitution made weak vrith a lickly stomach, and often infirmities, he would have done as he advised Timothy, be nould have mixed a little wine with his

But still he would have lived in a state of self-dentaf and mortification. He would have given this same ac- e-ount of himself. " 1 therefore so run, not ae ancertsin- ly, so fight 1, Dot as one that beateth the air ; bat 1 keep under, my body and bring it into subjection, lest that br any means, when 1 have preached to ethers, t myself altould be a catt-awaj."

. After all, let it now be su there is no necessity for you to »o fearful of yourself, so watct apprehensive of daoger, so ca ttie apostles were. Let it be § that you want le;)> SFUnJenial ai

jour bodies, and purify your souls, Ihan thi^y wanted ; that you need not have your Iojob girl, ami your lamps burniDg as they had, will you therefore live in a quite contrary state T Will yon make your hie as conslajit a course of softness and indulge nee, •as theirs was ot'strict- aess and self-denial 7

If, therefore, you should thiuk that you have time suf- ficient, both for prayer and other duties, lliou^ you rise late ; yet let me persuade you to nse enrly, as arf instance of self-denial. Jt is so pmall a one, Ihat if yoii cannot comply wilh it, you have no reason to think yours^f^- jiable of any other. "^

If I was to desire you not to study the gratificalion of your palate, in the niceties of meab) and drink, I would not insist much upon the crime of wasting your money in such a way, though it be a great one ; J>ut 1 would de- sire you to renounce such a way of life, because it sup- ports you in sueh a state of seoauahty and indulgence, as renders you incapabje of relishing the most essential doc- Ifine^" n ■■ ■

-jPbe



\W A SERIOtJS CALL TO A

of naeting so much (rf yonr time in sleep, ibongh ft be« ^eat one ; but ] desire y<m to reoounce this influlg^eoce, because it gives a sof^s aad idlenees to jour soui ; and is 80 contrary (o that lively, zealous, watcbfvfl, self-deny- ing spirit, which nasinot only the spirit of Christ and bis apoatles, the spirit of all Ihe saints aad martyrs whicb have ever been amongst men, but must be the spirit of all those who tvoutd not sink in tbe commoD corruption «f tbd world.

H'.Te therefore we must fix our charge againat tlui practice ; we must blame it, not as havu^ Ibis or that paTt*cular evil, but as a general habit that extends itself through our whole spirit, and supports a state of mind that is wholly wrong.

It is coiilriiry to pety ; not as accidental slips and mis- mrary to it, but in sucb a mannet', as



ill4k|K^M^ody IS contrary to health. Oo'^be otHfc hnnd, i"



Oo'^tbe otnHr hnnd, if you was to rise early every noming, as ^instance of self-denial, as a method of renouncing tmTDlgt>n.ce, as a means of redeeming yovt time, and fitting your spirit for pmyer, you would iiod Blighty atlTanlages from it This melliod, though it_ ■seems such a small circumstance of'4ife, would in all probability be a means of great piety. It would keep it constantly in your head, that softness and idleness were to he avoided, ihat self'denial was, a part of Christfaniiy. Jt would teach you to ejercise power over yourself, and make you able by degrees (o renounce other pleasure! And tampers that war ^gaia't the souL

■This one rule would teach you to think of others ; it would dispose your mind to exactness, and be very like- ty<hfcring tbe remaining part of the day under rules of jirunfnce and devotion.

But above all, one certain benefit from this method ynu will be sure of having, it will best fit and prepare you for the reception of (he Holy Spirit.. When you thus begin the day m Ihe spirit of renouncing sleep, because you are to renounce softness, and redeem yoiirtioie; this disposition, as it pnts your heart into a good stale, 'so it will procure the assistance of -tb^Holy Spirit ; what is so planted and watered, will certainly have an i^Mase from God. You will then speak from your beanffO'^



DEVODT AND HOLt LIFE. 181

tonl will be awakej yonr prayers will refresh you like meat and drink, you wilt feel what you say, and beg'in to know wbat saints and holy men have meant, by fer- Tours of devotion.

He that is thus prepared fo* prayer, who rises with these dispositions, is in a very different slate from him who has no rules of this kind ; who rises by chance, as he happens to be weary of his bed, or la able to sleep no longer. If such an one prays only with his moufh ; if his heart feels nothing of that which he says ; if hii prayers are only things (if coutue ; if they are a lifeless form of words, which lie only repeate because they are soon said, there is nothing to be wondered at in all this: ' for such dispositions are the natural efiecl of such a sl^e of life.

Hoping, therefore, that you are now enough Mwinced of the necessity of rising early to your prayetS,^*li«fc|tro- cecd to lay before you a method of daily prayer.

I do not take upon me to prescribe to you the use of any particular forms of prayer, but only to shew the necessity of praying at such times, and in such a innnner.

You will here find some helps, how to furnish yourself with such forms of prayer as shall be useful to you. — Aad If you are such a proficient in the spirit of devo- Uon, that your heart is always ready to pray in its own language, in this case I press no necessity of borrowed forms.

For though I think a form of prayer very necessary and expedient for piiblic'worship, yet if any one can find abetter way of raising his heart unto God in pft¥ate,lj»(n by prepared forms of prayer, I have nothing to object against it ; my design being only to assist and direct such as stand in need of assistance.

■ Thus much, I believe, is certain, that the generality of Christians ought to use forms of prayer, at all the regu- lar times of prayer. It seems right for every one to be- gin with a form of prayer; and if, in the midst ofdero- tioas, he finds his heart ready to break forth inio new andbigher strains ol» devotion, he should leave bis form



i^Googlc



182 A aatlOUe CALL TO A

for a while, and follow Ihose fervowra of his h«3rt, lill it njain wants the assistance of bis useful petition^).

This iiieeina to bs the true liberty of private devotion ; it ahould be under the direction of some form ; but not so lied down to it, hut that it may b« free to tako i^uch new expressions, as its present fervours happen to furnish it with ; which sometimes are Aiore atTeclisg, and carry the soul more powerfully to God, than any QXprcssioi^ that were ever used before.

AH people wbo have ever made any refiections upon what passes in their owd hearts, must know that they are mighty changeable in regard to devotion. Sometimea our hearts are bo awakened, have such strong apprehea- aions of the <liviDe presence, are so full of deep compunc- iiati for our sins, t|iat we caoaot confess them in any lan- gua^, but that of tears.

Sometimes the ,light of God's countenance shines so bright upon us, we see so far into the invisible world, wc are so affected with the wonders of the love and gooilness , of God, that our hearts worship and adore in a language higher than that of words, and we' feel transports of de- votien, which only can be felt.

On the other hand, sometimes we are so sunk into our bodies, so dull and unaffected witi) that which con- cerns our souls, that our hearts are as much too low for our prayers; we cannot keep pace with our forms of confession, or feel half of that in our hearts, which we have in our mouths ; we thank and praise God with forms of words, but our- hearts have little or no share in ■them.

It is therefbre liighly necessary to provide against thia inconstancy of our hearts, by having at band such foi-ms of praiyer, as may best suit us when our hearts are in their best slate, and also be most likely (o raise and stir them up, when they are sunk into dullness. For as words have a power of affecting our hearts on all occasions, as the same thing differently eiprassed has different effects upon our minds ; so it is reasonable, that we should make this advantage of language, and provide ourselves with - luch forms of expressions, as are mostlikely lo move and enliven our souls, and fill them with seotimenls ag^bl? to thejn, ^

Civ.MnGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE, . M

The first thing Ihat you are to do, when you are np- on your knees, is to shut your eye9, and with a short m- lence let your BonI place itself in the presence of God; that 19, you are to use this, or some other better meth- od, to separate yourself from all common thoughts, and make your heart as sensible as you can of the divine presence.

Now if this recollection of spirit is necessary, as n-ho can say it is not T then how poorly must they p*form their devotions, who are always in a hurry ; who begin them in haste, and hardly alloW themselres time to re- peat their very form, with any [gravity or attention ? -Theirs is properly saying prayers, instead of praying.

To proceed ; if you were to useyoursclf (as faras you can) to pray always in the same place ; if you were to reserve that place for deTOtion, and not allow your^iclf to do any thing common in il ; if you were never to be thera yourielf, but in times of <1evotion : if any little room (or if that cannot be) if any particular part of a . room was thus userf, this kind of consecration of it, as it place holy unio God, would have an effect upon your mind, and di8]iose you- to such tempers, as would very much assist your devotion. For dy having a place thus sacred in your room, it would in some measure resemble a chapel, or bouse of God. This would dispose you lo be always in the spirit of religion, when you were thera; and till you with wise and holy thoughts, wheit you were by yourself. Your own apartment would raise in your mind such sentiments as you have, when you. stand near an altar; and you would be afraid of think- ing or doing any thin" that was foolish near that plac?, which is the place of prayer, and holy intercourse with God.

When you begin your petitions, use such various e«- pressions of the attributes of God, as may make you most sensible of the greatness and power of the divine nalurei

Begin therefore, in words like these: "O Being of all beings, Fountain 'of all light and glory, gracious Father of men and angels, whose universal spirit is every where present, giving life, and light, and joj,



...MuGooglc



154 . A SERIOUS CALL TO A

to all angctls io heavea, and all creatures apon rartb," &c.

For these represeolatiooB of the tiivine attribirtee, which shew us in some degree the majesty and great-* Dess of Ood, are an excellent means ef raising our bestrt» into hvely acts of worship and adoration.

What is the reason that most people are so much af- fected nith this petition in the burial service of our Church : " Yet; t) Lord God most holy, O Lord most mighty, O holy and mo!it merciful Saviour, deliver as not into the bilter pains of eternal death!" It is because the joining together so many great expressions, give* such a description of the greatness of the divine Hajesty, as naturally affects every sensible mind.

Although therefore prayer does not coDsUt in fine words, or studied expressions ; yet as words speak to the soul, aMiey- have a certain power of raising thoughts id the soul; so (ho?e words which speak of God in tbe highest raaoncr, which most fully express the power aod presence of God, which raise thoughts in the soul mo«t suitable to the greatness and providence of God, are the most useful, and most edifying in our prayers.

When you direct any of your petitions to our blessed Lord, let it be in some expressions of this kind : ^ O Saviour of the world, God of God, Light of Light; thou who art the Bnghtness of thy Father's glory, and the express Image of his Person ; thou who art the Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and End of all things : thou who hast destroyed the power of the devil ; thou who hast overcome death ; thou who art entered into the holy of holies; who sittest at the right hand oftheFath- «r ; who art high above all thr'?Des and principalities, who makest intercession for all the world ; thou who art the Judge of the quick and dead ; thou who wilt speedily come down in thy Father's glory, to reward all men according to their works, be thou my light and my peace," fcc.

For such representations, which describe so msuy characters of our Saviour's nature and power, are not only proper acts of adoration, hut will, if they are repeated with attention, fill OUT hearts with the highest fervours of true devotioD.



c4iz=.JnGooglc



UEVGUT AKD HOLV life. 163

Again, if jou aBk an; piuijcolar grace of our blessed Lord^ let it be in some manner like this :

" O holy Jesus, son of the iftost high God, (hou who wast scourged at>a piUar, stretched and nailed on a cross for the sins of llie world, unite me to tin- cross, and fill ray soul with thy holy, humble, and suffering spirit. O Fountain of mercy,'thou who didet tave the thief upon the cross, save me from the guilt of a sinful life : thou who didst cast seven devils out of Mary Magdalene, cast out of my heart all evil thoughts, and wicked tempers. O givei'of life, thou who didst raise Lazarus from Die dead,'rnise up my soul from the death and darkness of sin. Thou who didst give to thy apostles power over unclean spirits, giveme power over mine own heart. Thou who didal appear uolo thy disciples when the doors were shut, do Ihou appear to me in th# secret apartment of my heart. Thou who didst cleanse the lepers, heal the sick, and give sight to the lilind, cleanse my heart, heal the disorders of my soul, and fill me with lieavenly light"

Now thtfse kind of appeals have a d oublevafi vantage j first, as they are so many proper acts of our faith, where- by we not only shew our belief of the miracles of Christ, but turn them nt the same time into so i^iy instances of worship and adoration.

Secondly, as they strengthen and increase the faith of . our [irayers, by presenting to our mind so many instances of th^it power and goodness, which we call upon for euit own assistance.

For he who appeals^to Christ, as casting out devi!^ nnd raising the dead, hai> then a powerful motive la his h^ud to pray earnestly, and depend faithfully upon his as- sistance.

Again, io order to till your prayers with excellent strains ordevo(ion,itraay beof use to you to observe this farther rule :

When at any time, either in reading the Scripture or nny book of piety, you uieet with a passage that more IHhd ordinarily affects, your mind, and seems as it were to give your heart a new motion towards God, you should iry to turn it into Ihc form of a petition, and (hen give it » place in your pruvT?'. 16*

Civ.MnGooglc



led A SERIOUS CALL TO A

By this means, >ou wouki be often improving yoni- yrayers, and storing youwelf with proper forms of makii^ the desires of your heart known unto God.

At nil the staleil hours of prayer, it -will be of great benefit to you, to have something hxed, and something at liberty, in your devotions.

You tiiould have some fixed sabject, which is constant- ly to be the chief matter of your prayer at that particular time ; and yet have liberty to add snch other petitions, aa ,yoiir condition may thea require.

For instance : as (he morning is to you the beginning of new life ; as God has then given you a new enjoyment of yourself, and a freah entrance into the world, it la highly proper that your first devotions should be a praise and thanksgiving to God, as for a new creation ; and thatyou should offer and devote body and sou), all that you are, and all that you have, to bis service and glory.

Receive therefore every day as a resurrection from death, as a new enjoyment of hfe ; meet every rising sun with snch sentiments of God's goodness, as tf you had seen it, and all things, new created upon your ac- count ; and un^er the sense of so great a blessing, let your joyful heart, impose and magDify so good and glorious a Creator.

Let therefore praise and thanksgiving, and oblation of yourself unto God, be always the fixed and certain sub- ject of yonr first prayers in the morning ; and then take the liberty of adding such other devotions, as the accideo- lel difference of your state, or the accidental difference of yovr heart, shall then make most needful and expedi- ent for you.

For one of the greatest benefits of private devotion, consists in righUy adapting our prayers' to these two conditions, the difference of our state, and the difference of our hearts.

hy the difference of our state, is meant the difference of our external state or condition as of sickness, health, pains, losses, disappointments, troubles, particular mercies «r judgments from God ; all sorts of kindnesses, injuries, or reproaches from other people.

How as these are^reat parti of 9<u state of life, 99



DEVOUT AND HOLY UFE. ifi?

they make great difference in it, by cODtinoally chang:ing ; so our'devotioD will be made doiddy b«net)cial lo us, when it watches to receive and sanctify all these chnogea of our state, and turns tbem all into so many occasions of a more. particular application to God of such Ihaoksgivings, such reai^atioo, such petitioDS as our present state more es- pecially requires.

And he that makes every change in his state a reason of presenting unto God some particular petitions suitable to that change, will soon find, that he has taken an es- cellent means, not only of prayings with fervour, but of living as be prays. .

The next condition to which we are always to adnpt some part of our prayers, is the difference of our hearts; hy which is meant the different state of the tempers of our liearts, as of love, joy, peace, tranquillity ; dulnes* and dryness of Bpirit, anniety, discontent, motiona of envy and ambition, dark and disconsolate thoughts, resentments, fretfujness and peevish tempers.

Now as these tempers, through the weakness of onr natare will have their succession more or less, even in pious minds ; so we should constantly make the present state of our heart, the reason of some particular applica- tion to God. _i

If we are in the delightful calm of sweet and easy passions, of love and joy in God, we should then oi- ier the grateful tribute of thanksgiving to God, for the possession of so ihuch happiness, thankfully owing and acknowledging him -as the bountiful Giver of it all.

If on the other hand, we feci ourselves laden with heavy passions, with dulness of spirit, anxiety and un- easiness, we must then look up to God in acts of humi- lity, confessing our unworthiness, opening our troubles to bim, beseeching him in his good time (<> J^fefai the weight of onr infirmities, and to deliver us^||n such paeeions as oppose the purity and perfection' of our souls.

Now by thus watcbit^ and attending to the present state of our hearts, and suiting some of our petitions ex< ««Uy to Uteir wauta, we shall not only be well acquainted



CoO;,lc



188 , A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Willi* (lie disorders of our souls^'bet also be well exercised in Ihe method of coring tlietn.

By ihis prudent nnd wise opplication of our prayers, we itliall get all the relief from lliem that is possible ; and the very changcal>lenes9 of our hearts, wjjl prove a meansof eiercising a greater variety of holy tempers.

Now by nil that has here been said, you will easily perceive, that persons careful of the greatest benefit of jirnyer, ought to have a great share la the forming and composing their owb devoltona.

As to that part of (heir prayers, which is always fix- ed to one certain subject, in that they may use the help of some forms composed by other persons; but in that part of their prayers, which they are always to suit to the present stale of their life, and the present state of their heart — there they mai't let the senie ol their own condition help th'm (o such kinds of pelition, thanksgiv- ing, or resignation, as their present stale more especially requires.

Happy are they, who have this business and employ- ment upon their hands '.

And now, if people of leisnre, whether men or women, who are so much at a loss liow to dispose' of their time, who are forced into poor contrivances, idle visits, and n- diculoiis diversions, merely to get rid of hours that kang heavily upon their hands ; if such were to appoint some certain spaces of their time, to the study of devolioo, searching after all the means and helps to attain a devout spirit ; if they were lo collect the best forms of devotion, to use themselves to transcribe the linest passages uf Scripture prayers ; if they were to collect Ihe devotions, conlessioLis, petitions, praises, resignnt ions, and thanksgiv- ings, which are scattered up and down in the Psalms, and range them under proper heads, as so much proper fuel for tbafllime of their own devotion ; if their minds were often tbi|{^ employed, sometime,s meditating upon them, sometinei getting them by heart, and making them as ha- bitual as their own thoughts, bow fervently would they __ pray, who came thus prepared lo prayer !

And how much better would it Le, to make Ihis benefit of Jeisure time, tlian to be dully and idly lost in ihe



.c4iz=.JnGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLT UHC J«

poor impertJaences of a playing, risitJDg, waDttering life!

Ho«r mucb better would it be, to b« thus furnished with hj'mns and anthema of the saiDts, and teach their floula to ascead to God, than to corrupt, bewilder and con< foiuid their hearts with the wild iancies, the lustful tboughto of lewd poets t

Now though people of leisure seem called more par» ticularly to this study of devotion, yet persons of much busiDeS:) or labour, must not think themselves excused from this or some better method of improving their dero-

For the greater their business is, the more need they have of some such method as this, to prevent its power over their hearts; to secure them from siokiug into worldly tempers, and preserve a sense and taste of heav-' enly thin^ in their minds. And a little time regularly and constantly employed to »ny one ii<e or end, niti d» greut thing*, and produce mighty effects. •

And it is ibr want of coc^dering devotion in this lights as someihing that is to be nursed and cherished with care, as sornathing that is to be made part of our busi- ncBS, that is to be improved with care and contrivance, by art, and method, and a diligent use ol'^e best helps; it is for want of considering it in this lighi^ that so many people are so httle benefitted by it; and live and die ^trangcra to that spirit of devotion, which by a prudent ose of proper msans, they might have enjoyed in a high degree.

For though the spirit of devotion is the gift of God, and Dot attainahle by any mere power of our own, yet it is tow% 9M«, mi never withheld, from those, who by a wise and diligent use of proper means, prepare tbem- ■elvts for the reception of it.

And it is amazing to see how eagerly men coqiloy their parts, their sagacity, time, study, application, and exer- cise ; how all helps are called to their assistance, when any thing is intended and desired in woridly matters ; and how dull, negligent, and unimproved they are, how little they use t'leir^parts, sagacity, and abilities, to raise and increase their devotion!

Muadanus is a man of excellent parts, and clear appj^



IM A SFBKHJS CALL TO A

hensioo. He is well adTanced in ag^e, and has made a great figure in busineas. Erery part of Hrade and busi- in;g« that has fallen in his way, has taid some improve- ment from him; and he is always contriving: to carry every method of doin^ any thin^ well, lo its greatest h(!ight. Mundanus alms at the greatest perfection in every thing. Q'he soundness and strength t)f his mind, and hia just way of thinking upon things, makes him in- icnt upon removing all imperfections.

He can tell you all the defects and errors' in all the common methods, whether of trade, building, or im- proving land or manufactures. The clearness and itrength of his understanding, vrhich he is constantly im- proving, by continual exercise in these i^atlers, by often digesting his thoughts in writing, and trying every thing every way, has rendered him a gaeat master, of most con- cerns m human hfe.

Thus has Mondttnus gone on, increasing his knowledge nni) judgnieDt,*as fast as bis years came upon him.

The one only thing which has not fallen under bis ioiprovement, nor received any benelil from his judi- cious mind, is his devotion ; thisisjust in the same poor elate it was, when he was only six years of age; and the old man prays now, in that little form of words, which Lis mother used to hear him repeat night and morning.

Thus Mundanus, that hardly ever saw the poorest utensil, or ever took the meanest trifle info his hand, without considering how it might be made or used to better advantage, has. gone all bis life long praying in the same manner as when he was a child ; without ever coBsidering how much better or oftener 4v iA)|W "PKtf^ without considering hew improveable the spirit of devo- tion is, how many helps a wise and reasonable man may call. to his assistance, and how necessary it is, that our prayers should be enlarged, varied, qnd suited to the par- ticular state and condition of our lives.

If Mundanns sees a book of devotion, he passes it by, as he does a spelling-book, because he r-emembera that he learned to pray so many years ago undar his mother, when he learnt to spell.



...MuGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. 191

Now how poor -and pitiable is tbe conduct of this mnn oftiense, wiio has so tpuch juda;incat and undei-standmg in erery things but that which is the whole wisdom of "man?

And how miserably do many people more or leiis imi- tate this conduct.

All which seems to be owing to a strange infatuated stalt: of negligence, which keeps people from considering whut devotion ie>. For if they dii^ut once proceed so fur, as to lollect about it, or ask Ihemselves any questions concerning it, they would aoon see that the spirit of de- rodon was Uke any other sense or understanding, that is «nly to be improved by study, care, application, and the T)se of such means and helps, as are necessary to make a man a proficicDt in any art of science.

Claisicus is a man of learning, and well reraed in all the best authors of antiquity. He has read them so much, that he has entered into their spirit, alid cap very ingeiuoiisly imilale the mannei of any of them. All their thoughts are his thougiits, and he can express him- ' ■elf ID their language. He is so great a friend to this improvement of the mind, that if he lights of a young scholar, he never fails to advise him concerning his studies.

Classicus tells his young man, he must not think that be has done enough, when he has only Jearnt languages; but that he must be daily conversant with the best au- thors ; read them again and again, catch their spirit by living with them, aad that there is no other way of be- coming like tbem, or of making himself a man of taste and judgment

How wise might Cla^icas have been, and how much good might he have done in tbe world, if he h^|^ut thought as justly of devotion, as he does of leamin^^

He never, indeed, says any thing shocking or offensive about devotion, because he never thinks or talks about it. It suffers nothing from him but neglect and disre- gard. *

The two testaments would not have had so much as a ' place amongst his books, but that they are both to he had jn Greek.

Clasaiftus thinks that he sufficiently shews Lis regard



fM A SERIOUS CALL TO A

for the holj Scriptore, when he tells ywi that he has na other book of pietj besides them.

It is very welt, Clawicus, that yov prehi the Bible to -all other books of piety; he has no Jugdment, that ia Dot thus far of your opinion.

But if you will have no other book of piety besides the Bible, because it i« the best, how comes it, Ctassicus, that jou do not coDtent yourself with one of the best books amongst the Greeks^d Romans? How comes it that you are so greedy and eager after all of them ? How .comes it that you think ihe knowledge of one is a neces- sary help to the koowledge of the other ? How comes it ihat you are so earnest, so laborious, so expensive of time And your money to restore broken periods and scraps of ■the ancients 2

How comes it that you read so many commentators upoo Cicero, Horace, am) Homer, and not one upon the ■Gospel ? How comes it that your love of Cicero, and Ovid, makes you love to read an autho* that writes Jike them ; iind yet your esteem lor the Gospel gives yon no desire, nay prevents your reading such books as breathe llip very spirit of (he Gospel ?

How comes it *hat you tell yflur young scholar, he must not content himself with barely understHnding hi( author*, but must be continually reading tiiem all, as the only Die.ms of entering into their spirit, and forming ihif own judgment according to them ?

Why then must the Bible lie alone in your study ? li not the spirit of tbe saints, the pieiy of the holy follow- ers of Jesus Christ, as good and necessary a meaqs of entering into the spirit and taste of the Gospel, as the j-eading of the ancients is of entering into the spirit of anlteUy ?

IsTBe spirit of poetry only to be got by much reading of poets and orators? And is not the spirit of devotion to be got io the same way, by frequent rending the holy thoughts, and pious straine-of devout -men ?

Is your young poet to search after every line that :may give new wings to his fancy, or direct his imagina- , iiotil Andis.it not as reasonable for him, who desiresf" to improve in the divine life, that ia, in the love of hea- ■ Tenly things^ ta search after every strain of devotion, '



.„^.



'^ , BEVOOT AND H^T LIFE. • 193

that^ny more, Undle, and inflame the holy ardour of tiiS soul. *• ^

. 4*0 yon adi^ yonr orator to transtate the best ora- tions, to comtDit much of them to memory, to be fre- queptly exercmiD^hia talcDt in this manner, that habits oftbinbin^ ana spealfing: justly may be fonned ifl his mind ? And is there not the same benefit and advantage ,*. to be made by books of devotion ? Should not a man m&f' tbem in the same way, that h!^>its of devotion, and aspir- ing to God in holy thoug'^ts, may be well formed in his ■ wul?

Now the reason why Classicus does not think and jad^ thus reasonably of devotion, is Owin^ to his never Ikinking of it in any other manner, than as the repeating a form of words. It never in his life entered into his head, to think of devotion as a state of the heart, as an improvable talent of the mind, as a temper that js to gayjw and increase like our reason and judgment, and to be formed in us by snch a regular diligent use of proper means, as are necessary to form any other w^ habit of mind.

And it is for want of this, that he has been cnnteit .all his life with the bare letter of prayer, and eagerly bent upon entenng into the spirit of heathen poets and orators.

And it is much to be lamented, that numbers of schol- ars are more or less chargeable with this excessive folly ; so negligent of improving -their devotion, Mid so dedroua of other poor acconDplishments, as if they thought it a nobly talent, to be able to write an epigram in the turn «f Martial, than to live, and thmk, and pray to God, in lh« spirit of St. Austin.

And yet to correct this temper, and fill a man 4tf a i|Uite contrary spirit, there seems to be no more ret^^ed,. than the baf'e belief of the truth of Christianity.

And if you was to ask Mundanns and Classicus, or any man of business or learning, whether piely is not the highest perfection of man, or devotion the greatest attainment in the world, they must both be (breed to an- 'swer in the affirmative, or else give up the truth of Ibe gospel. '

if'orto set any accompUshmenl agaJnstdevation,'or tes. - 17 /



tbiak any fhiag, or all things in the worid, bears any'^ro-

lo its excellency, is the sane absur|}i(y id a Chrie-

it would be Id a pbiloBOpn^ to papier a meal's

koowledge.



portion to its eiccellency, is the sane absur|}i(y tian, as it would be Id a pbiloBOpn^ to papfe) meat, to the greatest improvemeDt in koowledge.






„ philosophy professes purely the search and iO'

quiry afler knowledge, eo ChristiaDity suj^osea, intends, jesji£s and aimsat nothing else, but the raising fallen man

a divine Ufe, to such habits of holiness, snch degrees of ^ ivotion, as may fit him to enter amongst the holy inhab- itants of the kingdom of heaven.

He that does not believe this of Christinnily, may be reckoned an infidel ; and he that believes thus innch, has Akith enough to give h^m a right judgment of tke value of things, to support him in a sound mind, and enable him to oooquer all tiie temptations whicb the world shall lay in his way.

To conclude this chapter. Devotion is aotfaing eke but light approhensioas, and right afiecliona towards God.

All practices therefore that heighten and improve our true apprehensions of God, all wnys of life that tend to ntuirish, raise, and fis our affections upon him, are to be reckoned so many helps and means to fill us with de-. Totion.

As prayer is the proper fuel of this holy flame, so we must use ail our care and contrivaace to give prayer- its full power; as by alms, self-denial, frequent retirements, and hoty readings, composing forms for ourselves, or i»ing the best we can get, adding length of time, and observing hours of prayer; changing, improving, and suiting^ our devotions to the coadition of our lives, and the state of our hearts.

'^^e who have most leisure, seem more especially caltePto a more eminent observance of these holy rules . of a deroutlife. And they, who by theneceisity of their state, and not through their own choice, have but httle tinie to employ thus, must make the best use of that bttie they have.

For this is the oertais way of making devotion prodvca a devout life.



DEVOUT ABD HfLY.UPE.



Of chanling or «ni!;ing of psalms in our pritale Jevolions. Of tin escellency nnd beocfit of this kind of devotion. Of tlie great effects it hath upon our hearts. Of the means of performing it

' in the best inaouer.

YOU have seeD in the foregoitii^ chapter what me.iQs aod methods you are to use, to raise nnd improve yoDv^devotioD. How early you are te begin ytut prayers, aai what is to be the subject of your &rst devotions in the ' moraiag.

There is me thing still remaining, that ^ou must be required to observe, not only as tit and proper to be done, but as such as cannot be neglected, without great preju- ■ dice to your devotions. And that is, to begin aU-yonr prayeri reith a psaim.

This is so right, is -so beneficial to devotion, hu so much effect upon our hearts, that it mny be insisted up<Hk as a coTiHnon role for all persons.

I do not mean that ynu shoald read over n psalm, bat that you should chant or sing one of those psalms, which we commonlj call the reading psalms. For singing is as much the proper use of a psalm, as devout supplication is the proper use of a form of prayer. And a psalm only read, is very much like a prayer that is only looked

Now the method of chanting a psalm, such as is used ID the colleges, in the universities, and in some churches, is such as nil persons are capable of The chai^ of the voice in thus chanting of a psalm is so small and natural, that every body is able to do it, and yet sufficient to raise and keep up the gladness of our hearts.

Yooare, therefore, to consider this chanting of a psalm, as a ne .saary beginning of your devotions, as someHjng that is to awnken all that is good and holy witbto ^l^ that is to call your spirits to their proper duty, to sot jMu , in your best posture toivards heaven, and tune tH the po?rers of your soul to worship and adoration.



ii,.=.jnGooglc



196 A S3»f)US CALL TO A ^ ^^

For th«re is Dotfaii^ that so clears a way for ja\ts frayen, oothing Uiat bo dispers^ulu loess- of ncart, notlv- ing that so purifies the soul froDi poor and Utile passioov, nothing that so opens hearen, or carriea jrour heart so near it, as these songs of praise.

They create a sflnse and delight io Gotf, they awaken holy desires, they leach you how to aelc, am] fhey pre- Taif itith God to give. They kindle an holy flame, Uicy turn yoar heart into an altar, yoitr prayers into incense, and cairy them as a sweet smelling sarour to the throne «f Grace.

The, dttference between singing and reading' a ptahn, will ea»ly be understood, if you consider the diSerence between reading end singing a common song that yoa like. Whilst yon only read it, yon only like il, and that is all ; but as soon as you sing it, (hen yoa enjoy it, yoa feel the delight ofii, it has got hold of you, your passions keep pace with it, and you feel the same spirit within you, that there seems to be in the wor^s.

If you were to tell a person who has such a song, that lie need not »ng il, that it was sufficient to peruse it, he would wonder what yon mean ; and would think yoa ae absurd, as if youwere to tell him, that he should only look at his food, to see whether it was good, but need not eat it ; for a song of praise not sung, is very like any other good thing not made use of

You will perhaps say, that singing is a particular talent, that belongs only to particular people, and that yon have meither Toice nor ear Io make any raueic.

If you had said that singing is a general talent, and thai people differ in that as they do in all other things, yoo had said something much Iruer.

* Fo* how vastly do people dififer in the talent of think- ing, which is not only common to all men, but seems to be the very essence of humnn nature ! How readily do some people reason upon every thing r and hoiv hardly do;«th<;rs reason upon any thing! How clearly do some oeopln discourse upon the most abstruse matters, and -.^hmv confusedly <lo otiiers talk upon the plainest snb- t jects*-

Yel no one desires to be excused from thought, or rea- son, or discom-so, because he has not these tnlsnts as



DWOUT Aim HQfct UFE. 197

■ome people have them. But it is full as just, &r a {Wr- ton to thinle himself excused from thinking upm God, from reasoning about his duty to him, or i^coursiog about the means of salvatioa, because he has not these talents in any fine degree ; this is full as just, as for a person to think himself excused from singing the praises of God, becaose he has not a due ear, or a musical

For as it is speaking, and not graceful spea^i^,' that is a required part of prayer ; as it is bowing, and not gen- teel boning, that ia a proper part of adoration ; so it u ^nging, and not artful fine singing, that is a required way of praising Gnd.

If a person was to forbear praying, because he hod as odd tone in his voice; he would hare as good an excuse as he has, that forbears from singing psalms, because he has bat little management of his voice. And as a man^s ^ speaking his prayers, though in an odd tone, may yet sufficiently answer ail the ends of his own devotion ; so a man^a siugii^ of a psalm, though not in a very musical tVay,'may yet sufficiently answer all the ends of rejoicing in and praising God.

Secondly This objection might be of sotoe weight, if you were desired to sing, to eDtertain olbep people ; but it not to be adnutted in the present case, where you are only required to sing the praises of God, as a part of your own private devotion.

If a person who has a very ill voice, and a bad way of speaking, was desired to be the mouth of a congregation, it would be a very proper excuse for him to say that be bad not a voice, or a way of speaking that was proper for prayer. But he would be very absurd, if for the same reason he should neglect his own private devo- tions.

Now this is exactly the case of singing psalms; yon may not have the talent of singing, so as to be able to entertain other people, and therefore it is reasonable lo eiciise yourself ■ from it; but if for that reason yOu should excuse yourself from this way of praising God, you would be guilty of a great absurdity: because sing- ing ia no more required for the music that is made by it, than prayer is requited for the line words that it cob-

n*



CALL TO A

tains, httt as it is the natural and proper eipression of a heart rejoicing in God.

Our blessed Saviqjir and his apostles san^ an h;mo, but it may reasonably be supposed, that thej rather re- joiced in doA, than made fine music.

Do but so live, that yotr heart may truly rejoice id God, that it may feel itself affected with the praises of God, and Ihen yon will find, that this state of your heart, will neither want a voice, nor ear, to find a tune tor ar pealm. Every one at eooite time or other, finib himself able to sing in some degree ; there are some times and occasions of jov, that make alt people ready to ex- press their sense oftt in some sort of harmony. The joy that they feel, forces them to let their Tuces bare « part in it.

He, therefore, tbatisays be wants a Toic«, or ah ear, to sing a psalm, mistakes the case : he wants that spirit that really rejoices in God ; the diilness is in his heart, and not in his ear ; and when his heart feels a true joy in God, when it has a fnll relish of what is ei[^essed in the psalms, be will find it very pleasant, to make the nee- tions of his voice express the motions of his heart.

Singing indeed, as it is improTed into an art, as it sig- nifies the running of the Toice through soch or «uch a compass of noles, and keeping time with a Studied variety •f changes, is not natural, nor the eSect«f ai^ natural state of the iniDd ; so in this sense, it is not common to all people, any more than those antic and invented motions, whi^ make &te dancli^, are commou to all people.

Bat singing, as it signifies a motion of the voice snit^ ble to the motions of the heart, and the changing of its ton^ according to the meaniag of the words which we utter, is as natural and common to all men, as il is to speak high when they threaten in anger, or to speak low when , they are dejected and ask for a pardon.

All men therefore are singers, in the same manner as all men think, speak, langh, and lament. For singing is no more an invention, than grief or joy are inven-

Every state of the heart naturally pats the body into Mine state that is imtable to it, and a proper to sbew il



DEVOUT AND HOLT LtFE. t9»

to other people. If a man is angr;, or disdainia), no one need iostmct him how 'to express these passions bi^ the tone of his voice. The state of his heart disj^es him to a proper use of his voice.

If there are but fcnr singers of divine songs, if people want to be exhorted to this part of devotion ; it is be- cause there are but few whose hearts are raised to that height of pielj, as to feel any motions of joy and delight in the praises of Qod.

Imagine to yourself, that you hnji been with Moses when he was led through the Red Sea ; that you bn4 seen the waters divide themselves, and stand on an henp oo both sides ; that you had seen them held up till you had passed through, thea let fall upon your enemies ; Jo you think that you should then haVte wanted a voice or an ear to have song with Moses, Tht Lord u my itrengih mnd my tong,- ai%d he i* become my salvation, &c. f I know, your own heart tells you, that all people must have been aingen upon such an orcasion, Ijet this therefore teach you that it is the heart that tunes a voice to ling the praises ofOod ; and that if you cannot smg these same words now with joy, it is because you are not so aiTected with the salyatioo of the world by Jesus Christ, as tha Jews were, or yon yoHraelf wonld hare beeo, with their deliverance at the Red Sea.

That it is (he state of the heart that disposes us to re- joice Iq any particular kind of singing, may be easily proved from a variety of observations upon human nature. An old debauchee may, according to the language of the world, have neither voice nor ear, if you only sing s psalm, or a song, in praise of virtue to him ; but yet- if in some easy tone you sing something that celebrates his former debaucheries, he will then, though be has no teeth in his bead, shew yoo, that he has both a voice and aa ear to join in such music You then awaken bis heart, and he as naturally sings to such words, as he laughs when he is pleased. And this will be the cas^ in everj foi^that touches the heart; if you celebrate the ruling passion of any man^s heart, you put his voice ia tune t« join with yon.

Thus if yon can find a man, whose ruling temper is devcrtiw, whtwe iieart is fnU ef God, his v«ce will ■•■



900 A SERIOUS CALL Td A.

joice in those songa of praise, which gforify that God that is the joj of hi* heart, though he baa neither voice nor ear for olher dmhic. WouU you therefore deligfatfnlly perform This part of dcTotion, it is not bo neceaaary to le^ro a tune, or practise upon notes, as to prepare your heart ; for, as our blessed Lord saith, Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, &c. so it is equally trae, that out of the heart proceed holy joys, thank^ving and praise. If you can once aay with David, My htart u fixed, O Godj mjt heart u Jixtd ; it will be very easy and natural to add, as he did, / teiU Hag and givt praue, kc. ■ ,

Thirdly^ Let us now consider another reason for this kind of devotion. As silking is a natural effect of joy in Ihe heart, so it has also a natural power of tendering the heHrtjoyful.

The soul and body are so united, that they have «ach of th<!m pow6r over one aoodier in their actions. Cer- tain thoughts and sentiments in the soul, produce such and such motions or actions in the body ; and on the other hand, certain motions and actions of the body, have the same power of raising such aod such thoughts and senti- menls in the soul. So that as singing is the nstnral effect of joy-in t|ie mind, so it is as truly a natural cause of rais- ing joy in the mind.

As devotion of the heart natunvUy breaks oat into out- ward acta of prayer, so outward acts of prayer are natural means of raising the devotion of the heart.

It is thus in all states an^ tempers of the mind ; as the intfard state of the mind produces outward actions soita- hle to it, so those outward actions have the like power of raisi)^ an Inward state of mind suitable (o them. .

As anger produces ai^ry words, so angry words increase anger.

So that if we barely consider human nature, we shall find, that singing or chanting the psalms, is as proper and necessary to raise our hearts to a delight in God, as prayer is proper and necessary to ^scite in us the spirit of devo- lion- Every reason for one, is in all respects as atnHig a reason for the other.

If therefore you would know the reason and necessity «f singing putns, you must consider the reaa<m and ne-



.BEVOUT AISP HOLT UFE. ICI

ccssily of praising md rajbtdDg in God ; because efagin; •f pSiUiiu is as uuiclt th« true exercise nod eapport of Ihis spirit of thank^Tiag, as. prayer ia the trne exercise and support of the spirit of devotion. And yo«f may as well tliiok, that yon can be devout as you oi^ht, witb- out the use of prayer, aa that you can rejoice in God as you ought, wilhout the practice tjf singing psaimfl. Be- cause this singing is as much the natural language rf praise and thanksgiving, as prayer is the natural lan- guage ofdevotioD.

The union of soul and body is not a mixture of (hei» substances, as we see bodies united and mixed ti^ether, but coflsisls solely in the mutual power that they have of acting upon one another.

If (wo persona were in such a state of dependance up- on one another, that neither of them could act, or move, or think, or feel, or suffer, or desire any tbit^, without putting the other into the same con<lition, one might properly any, ttiat they were in a strict union, although their substances were not united together.

^ow this is the union of the soul and body ; the sob- stance of jhe one ciinnot be mixed or united with the other ; but they are lield together in such a state of union, that u)l the actions and auQerings of the one, are at the same time the actions and sufferings of the other. The soul has no thought or passion, but the body is concern- ed in it; the body has no action or motion, but what in some degree affects the soul.

Pfow ns it is the sole will of God that is the reason and cause of all the powers and effects which yon see in the world ; .as the sun gives light and heat, not because it has any natural power of so doing; as it is-fixed in a certain place, and other bodies move about it, not he- CRuse it ie in (he nature of the sun to stand still, and in the nature of other bodies to move about it; but merely because i( isthe will of God, that they shiiold he in such a state. As the eye is the oigan or tvatrumeDt of seeieg, not because the skins, and coals, and humours of the eye, have a natural power of giving aight: As the eaivare the organ* or instruments of bearing, not because the make of the ear has any natural power over sounds, but mer^y because it is the wil) of Gpd, that aeeing and



902 i SERIOUS CALL TO A

bewii^ Bbould'be thos receired : »o to like manner it is the B(Ae will of God, anfl not Ib^ oatare of a hotnan booI or body, that is the cause of Ibis union betwixt the soul and th^body. •

Now if jou rigbtiy apprehend this short account of the union of th« soul tud body, yon will see a grent deal into the reason and oeceEsity of all the outward parts of religion.

This union of our souls and bodies is the reason both why we have so little and so much power over ourselves. It is owing to this union that we have so little power over'our souls; for as we cannot prevent the effects of external objects upon our bodies; as we cannot cVmmBDd . outward causes ; so we cannot always command the in- ward state of our minds ; because, as outward objects act upon car bodies without our leave, so our bodies act ilpon our mind^ by the taws of the anion of the sonl and the body : And tbiis yon see it is owing to this union, that we have so little pow^r over ourselves.

Oq Ibe ottier hand, it is owing to this union, that we have so much power over ourselves. For as our souls ia a great measure depend upon our bodies; and as wc have great power over our bodies ; as we command our outward actions, and oblige ourselves to such habits of life, as naturally produce habits in the soul ; as we can mortify our bodies, and remove ourselves from objecla that inSamc our passions; so we have a great power over the inward state of our souls. Again, as we are masteis of our outward actions ; as we can force ourselres to outward acts of reading, praying, singing, and the like; and as all these bodily actions have an effect upon the soul, as they naturally tend to form such and such tem- pers in our hearts i so by being masters of these outward, bodily actions, we have great power over the inward stcrte of the heart. ,

And thus it is owing to this union, that we have so mocb power over ourselves.

Now from this you may also see the necessity and bensfit of singing psalms, and of all the outward acta of religion; for if the body has so much power over the •oal, it is certain that ail such bodily actions as affect tha soul, are of great weight in religion. Not as if there



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. 203

was ^y true norehip or pie^ in the actioiu thema^es, bu. because they are proper (o raise and sapport that spirit,.which is the true worship of God.

Though therefore the seat of rehgion is in the heart, yet since our bodies have a power over our hearts, since 6utward actions both proceed firom, and enter into the lieart, it is plain, that outward actions have a great power over that religion which is seated in the heart.

We are therefore as well to use outward helps, as in- ward meditation, in order to beget and fix habits of piety in our hearts. ^

This doctnne may be easily carried too far ; for by calling in too many outward means of worship, it may degenerate into saper^tiuon : as on the other hand, some have fallenf into the contrary eitreme. For because re- ligion is justly placed in the heart, some have pursued that notion so far, as to renounce voc^l prayer, and oth- er outward acts ofworchp, and have resolved all reli- gion into a quietism, or mystic intercourse with God in eilence.

Now these are two extremes equally prejudicial to true religion ; and ought not to he objected either against internal or estemal worship. As you ought not to say, that I eneourage that quietism, by placing religion id the heart; so neither ought you to say that 1 enr^urage superstition, by dewing the benefit of outward acts of worship.

For since we are neither all soul, nor all body ; seeing ■ none of our actions are either separately of the soul, or separately of the body ; seeing we have no habits but auch as are produced by the actions both of our souli and bodies, it is certain, that if we would arrive at hab- its of devotion, or deligjit in God, we must not only med- itate and exercise our souls, but we must practise and ex- ercise our bodies to all such outward actions, as are con< formahie to these inward tempers.

If we wovid truly prostrate our souls before God, we must use our bodies to postures of lowliness. If we de> •ire true fervour of devotion, we must make prayer the frequent labour of our lips. If we would banish all pride and passion from our hearts, we must force ou^ *t;lT9i to all ODtnard actions of patience and meebnetf.



SM A SERIOUS CAIX TO A

If wiPtinmId feel modom ottpJ' ""'^ deligbt in God,- we mutt practice all the oatnm acts of it,, and make our roices call upon oar bearti.

Now therefore, yon may plRUtlj^see the reason and necessi^ of iingii^ of pialmt ; it ib because ontward ao tioos are necessarj to support inward tempers : and there- fore the outward act of joj is aecessary to raiBe aad sap-. port the inward joy of the mind.

If any people were tp leave off prayer, because Ibej seldom tiud the motions of their hearts answering the won^ which they speak, you would charge thetn with great absurdity. You would think it very reasonable, that they shall continue their prayers, and be strict in observing all times of prayer, as the most likely means of removiof^ the dulnew and indevotion of their hear^

Now this is very much the case an to singing of psalms, people often sing without finding any inward joy suitable to the words 'which they speak ; therefore they are care- less of it, or wholly neglect it ; not considerir^ that they act as ab8urdly,'as he that should neglect prayer, because his heart was not enough affected with il. For it is cer- tain, that this singing is as much the natural means of raising motions of joy in the min^, as prayer is the nat- ural means of raising devotion.

I have been the longer upon this head, because ofiti ' great importance to true religion. For there is no state , of mind so holy, so excellent, and so truly perfect as that of thankfulness to Ood ; and consequently nothing is of more inqwrlHnce in religion, than that which eserciset and improves this habit of mind.

A dull, uneasy, complaining spirit, which is sometimes Ae spirit of those that seem careful of religion, is yet of all tempers the moat contrary to ^ligion, for it disowns thai God which it pretends to adore. For he sufficiently -disowns God, who does not adore him as a being of in- ' finite goodness.

- If a man does not believe that nil the world is as God'* family, where nothing happens by chance, but all is l^ded and directed by the care and providence of a be- iaf that is all love and goodness to all his creatiires ; if a man do not helieve this from hie heart, he cannot be s«id truly to believe in God. A&d yeliie thai has l)ul



BEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. !«5

iaith, hath faith eDOUgb toAvercqiae the wotU, Ad al- ways be thankful to God. For he that believes that ev- ery thing happens to him for the best, cannot possibly complaio for the want of something that is better.

If Iberefore you live in murmuriog^s and complaints, accusuig all the ncciilents of bfe, it is not because you are a weak| infirm creature, but it is because you want the iint principles of religion, a right belief in God. For ' as thankfulness is an eiprew aclmowledgment of the goodness of God towards you, so repinings and complaints are as plain accusations of God^s want of goodness to- wards you.

On the. other hand, would you know who is the great- est saint ii Ihe world? It is not he who prays most, or fasts most; it is not be who gives most aims, or is most emineat for temperance, chastity, or justice ; but it is he who is always thankful to God, who wills every thing that God willeth, who receives every thing as an in- itance of God's goodness, and has a heart always ready io praise God for it.

All prayer and devotion, fastings and repentance, med- itation and retirement, all sacraments and ordinances, are but so many means to render the soul thus divine and coaformable to the will of God, and lo till it with thank- fulness and praise for every thing Ihnt comes from God. This is the perfection of all virtual ; and all virtue:^ that do not tend to it, or proceed from it, are hut so many , false ornaments of a soul not converted unto God.

You need not theretbre now wonder, that I lay.so much stress upon singing a psalm at nil your devotions, since you see it is to form your spirit to such joy and Miankful- ness to God, as is the liighest perfection of a divine aod holy life.

If any one would tell you the shortest, surest may to all happiness, and all perfection, he must tell you to make it a rule to yourself, to thank and praise God for every thing that happens to you. For it is certain, that whatever seeming calamity happens to you, if you thank anil praise God for it, you turn it into a blessing. Could you therefore work miracles, you could do no more^r youFselfj than by this thanUul spirit, for it heals with



,v=.jhGooq[c



a« A SERlOgS CALL TO A

a iroit speaking, andMrns ^ that it toaches into happi- ness.

Iftherefore you would be so true to yonr eteraal ^- tereal, as to propose this thsDkfuIness as tlie end of all .your religion ; if you would but settle it in your miad, ibat this WH3 the elate that yon wns to aim at by all your derotions ; you would then have Bomethiog plain and visible to walk by in all your act.ons, you would then easily see the effect of your virtues, and might iafely judge of 'jour iniproTement in pjety. For so far as you renounce all «eltish tempers and motions of your own will, and seek for no other happiness, but in the thankful reception of every thing that happens to you, ■0 far you may be safely reckoned to have advaaced in piety.

And although this be the highest temper that yon can aim at, though it be the noblest sacrifice that the greatest saint can oiler unto God, yet it is not tied to any lime, or place, or great occasion, but, is alwuys in your power, and may be the exercise of every day. For the common events of every day are sufficient to dis- cover and eiercise this iemper,.'Hnd may plainly shew you how far you are governed in all your actions by this thankful spirit.

And for this reason I exhort yoa to this method in your devotion, that every day may he made a day of i thanksgiving, and that the spint of murmur and discon- tent may he unable to enter into the heart, which -is so often employed in singing the praises of God.

It may perhaps after ell be objected, that although the great benetitf and, excellent effects of this practice are very apparent, yet it seems not altogether so fit liw private devotions ; since it can hardly be performed with- out makin? our devotions public to other people, and seems also liable to the charge of sounding a trumpet at our prayers.

It is therefore answered, Fint, that great numbers of people have it in their power to be as private as they please ; such pereons therefore arft excluded from th^ excuse, which however it may be so to otber>, is none to them. Therefore let guch take th« Unefit of this ev cellcnt derotioi).



I n Google



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFT.

Secondly, Nuiaben of pmi^Ie are by the d their state, aa aervants, apprentices, prisoners, lies in small houaes, forced lo be contiDually i eoce or sight of somebody or other.

Now are such persons to neglect their praye they cannot pray without being seen 7 Ar^ the er obliged to be more exact in them, that olh* be witnesses of their neglect, and so corrupte example 1

Now what is here said of devotion, may said of Ibis chanting a psalm, which is only de potion.

The rule is this; Don't pray that you mi of men, but if your conlinement obliges yot ways io the sight of others, be more airaii seen to neglect, than of being seen lo have r prayer.

TMrdtt/, The stale of the matter is this. E pie cA use such privacy in this practice, as ti hearers, or they cannot. If they can, then tioQ vanishes as to them : and if they cannot, t consider their conlinemenl, and the necessitii state, as the confinement of a prison ; and have an eicellent pattern to follow, they may Paul and Sibf, who sang praines.to God though we are expressly told, that the prisoc them. They therefore did not refrain from tt devotion for fear of being heard by others. II any one is iti the same necessity, either in pri! of prison, what can he do heller, than to follow Kmple 1

1 ctnnot pass by this place of scripture, n •ir ng (h.; pious reader li> observe how strong here called upon to this use oPpsalms, and wha recommendation of it, the practice of these

» In Ihis their great di«treM in prison, in ch: the "oreness of stripes, in the horror ofjiight, est, holiest thing they could do, w^ toying pi

And shall we, after this, need any exhorlati holy practice ? Shall we^ let the day pass wii



508 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

thanksgirtD^ as Ihey wotSHnot neglect in the ni^f? Shall a prieoD, chains and idarkpess,. furoiBh them mttb Bonga of praise, and shall we har.e do singings 'in our closets ? ,

Further, let it also be observed, that while thes« two koly men were thus employed in the most exalied par^ of devotion, doing that on earth, which angels do in heav- en, that ThtfoundiUiont of tht prima were ihaken, ali the doors mere opened, and every oneU liands were loosed. Actf ivi. 26.

And shall we now ask for motives to this divine eXf ercise, when, instead of ailments, we have here eijcb miracles to coQvioce us of^ this mighty power with God?

Could God by a voice from beaven more expressly call us lo these songs of praise, than by thus shewing us, hoir be hears, delivers, and rewards those' that use them?

Bi]t this by the way. 1 now return to the objeflttim in. Iiand : and answer, Fourthly, That the privacy of oar prayers, is not destroyed by our having, but by our seek* fog witnesses of tbem.

If therefore nobody hears you but those you cannot Separate yourself from, you are as much in secret, and ^our Father who seeth in secret, will as truly reward your secrecy, as if you was seen by him alone.

Fifthly, Private prayer, as it is opposed to prayer in public, does not suppose that no one is to have any wit- . ness o'fit. For husbands and wives, tjrolhera and sisters, parents and children, masters and servants, tutors and ]>upile, are to be witnexses to one another of such devo- tifti, as mny truly and properly be called private. It is far from being a duty to couceal Mch devotion irom such near relations. , * < '

In all these cases, therefore, where such relations some- times pray together in private, and sQipetimes apart by themselves, the chanting of a psalm -can hove nothing « objected against i^^ ^

Our blessed Lo0 coigmands us, when we fast, to ^noifil ^ OBc ksadi, and toasli our faces, that we appear not unto bk» -^ fofast. few Hitlo our Father ttko is in secret. N



I, Google



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE 36»

Bnt this only meanx, that we must not roake public oatiintation to the world of our fasting.

For if no one was to fast in private, or could be said to fa^t in private, but he who had no witaesse* of it, no ons could keep a private fast, but he trho lived by h'm- aelf : fo( every family must know who fasts in it. There- fore, the privacy of fasting does not suppose such a pnva- . cy as esclndaa every body from knowing it,, but such a privacy as docs not seek to be known abroad.

Comeliu", the devout centurion, of whom the scripture enith, that he gave much, and praytd to God ahoat/, saith Uiito St. Peter, Four dayt ago, I teaifaituig tinfiV thia konr. ■ Acts I. 2. ■

Now that this fasting was sufficiently private and aaceptable to God, appears from the vision of an an- gel, with which the l^oly man was blessed at that time.

But^at it was not so private, as to be entirely un- knowiWo others, appears, as from the relation ijf it here, so from what is said in aoother place, that he called tmo of his hotaehold lervonts, and a devout lotdier of them that waited upon him continiially. So that Cor- oetius uis fasting was so far from being unknown to his family, that Ibe soldiers and they of his hoHsehoid were m iJe devout themselves, by continually waiting upon h.in, that is, by seeing and partaking of hia good works.

As therefore the privacy or excellency of fasting is not destroyed by Being known to some particular persons, neither would the privacy or escellency of your devo- tions be hurt, though by chanting a psalm you sboald be Ikearl by soms of your.fam.ly. *

The whole of the matter is this, A great part of the worl I can be as private as tbey please, therefore let them n-s this excellent devotion between God and them- selves, ~ ,

Another great part of the world must and onght to have Witnesses of several of their devotions; let then therefore not neglect the use of a psald) at such tm^a «s it ought to be known to those with whom they live, th^t they do not neglect their prayers. For surely, there can be no barm in being koowu to be siaging a psalm, 18*



aio k seaious call to a

■ at such times b3 it oug'ht to be knonrn that yon are at your prayers.

And if at other times you desire to.be in Buch aecresy at your devoiioos, jis to have nobody suspect it, and for that reason forbear your psalm ; 1 have nothing to objecl, against it ; provided, that at the known hours of prayer, you never omit this practice. *

For nhp would not be oHcn doing that in the day, which St. Paul and Silas would not neglect in the middle of Ihe night ! And i£^ when you are thus singing, it should come into your head, how the prison shaJied, and the doon opened, when St. Paul sang, it would do your devotion no

baatly, Seeing our imaginations have great power over our hearts, and can mightily affect us with their repregen- tattons, it would be of great use to you, if at the begiit- ning .of your devotions, you was to imagine to yourself some such representation, as might heat and warm youf heart into a temper suitable to those prayers that J^ an! theif about to offer unto God.

As thus ; before you begin your psalm of praise snj rejoicing in God, make this use of your imagination.

Be still, an4 imagine to yourself, that you saw the hcaf ens open, and the glonous choir of cherubim and ■erapbim about the throne of God. Imagine that you hear the music of those angelic voices that cease nol day and night to sing Ihe glories of him that is, and was, and is to come.

Help your imaginations with such passages oficrip- ture as these. Bev. vii. 9. '^ 1 beheld, and lo, in heav- en a great multitude which no man could number, of all lotions, and kindredf, and people, and tongues, standing before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed wilb whites robes, and palms in their hands. And they cried with a loud voice, Palpation to our God who sitteUi upoa the throne, and unto the Lamb^.^^

And all the angels stood round%b<ruf the throne, aod . fell before the throne oo their faces, fcnd worshipped God, saying. Amen : Blessing, and glory, and power, and strength, be unto God, forever and ev^rl(i. Amen."

Tliink upon this, till your imagination has carried you above the clouds, till it ha) placed yoo amongst tho»e



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. 211

b«areDly beii^, and tAade y<iy long to bear a part id their eternal music.

Ifyott willbut use yourself to this method, and let your imagination dwell amor^ such representations as these, you will Hobn find it ap excelleal means of raising the spirit of derotion within you.

Always therefore begin your psalm or song of praise, with these imaginations ; and at every verse «i" it, imag- iae yourself amongst those hearenly companions, that your voice is aided to theirs, and tl^t angels join with you, and you with them ; and that you with a poor and low voice, are singing that on earth, which Ihej are sing- ing in heaven.

Again, Sometimes ima^ne that you had been one of those that joiaed with our blessed Saviour when he sung an hymn. Strive to ima^ne to yourself, with what ma- jesty he looked ; fancy that you had stood close by him, surrounded with his glory. Think how your heart would hai# bee^ inflamed, what ecstasies of joy yau would have then felt, when singing with die Son of God. Think again and again, with what joy and devotion you would then have sung, had this been really your bapp; state, and what a punishment ^u should have tboughtit,to have been then silent; and let this teach you how to be affected with psalms and hymns of tbankft*. giving.

Aga'm, Sometimes imagiDe to yourself, that yon saw holy David with his hands up(xi his harp, and his eyes fixed upon heaven, calling with transport on the creation, ann and moon, light and derkaesa, day and night, men and angels to joir) with liis rapturous sout in praising the Lord of heaven.

Dwell upon this imagination, till you think you are sii^og with this divine musictao, and let such a com- panion teach you to exalt your heart unto God in the following psalm; which you may use constantly first in the morning.

I'salm cxiv. / wxH tnagtiify ihet, O God my Kii^ : / ■sdll praite thy tutme/or ever and ever, 4re.

These following, psalnu, as the 34th, 96th, lOSd, Ulth, J46lh, 14Tti, are such as wonderfully set forth the glory of God : and lberefor« 70a may keep to anr



SIC A SERIOUS CALL TO A

cme of them at anjr partictilar hour, a» jon like: or Jim may take the finest parte of any p»altnf>, an] so add- ing them tog^ether, may D»k« them htler for your ohd derotiOQ.



BecommMulin; devotion at nine o'clock in tlie morniDi^, CBlIed 'a

acri^ure, the iliird hoiu of (he daj. The lubject of tbeie prajen, ii hwuilitj.

I AM now come to another hoor of.prayer, which in scripture is called tfce third hour of the day ; hwt ac- corhn^ to oiir ivay of numbf^ring the hours, it is called the ninth hour of the morning'.

Th^^ derout Christinti mu9t at lhi!i time look upon ifto- self a^ called upon by God to renew his acta of prayer, and address himself again to (he throne of grace.

There is indeed no express command in scripture to repeat oar devotilhs at this hour. But then it is to-be CORNideredalso, that neither is there an express commatti} to begin and end the day with prayer. So that if that be looked npoo as a reaspn for neglecting devotion at this hour, it may a» wl.1I he nr^d as a reason for aeg^ lecting devotion both at the beginning and end of the day.

But if the-practice bf the saints in all ages of tbe worM, if the customs of fhe pious Jews and primitive Christians be of any force with us, we have authority enough to persuade us, to make this boar a constant season of de- TOt on.

The scriptures shew as how this hoor was consecrated to devotion, both by Jews and Christians: so that if we desire to number ounelves amongst those whoce hearts were .devoted unto God, we must not let this hour pass, without presenting ns to him in some solemnities of de- votion. And beside this authority for this practice, tbe reason ableoeH of it is sufficient to invite as to tfa«obser- vance of iL



c4v=..inGooglc



DEVODT AND keLT Ln*. ' 9W

Tor if you was up at a good time in the morning, your first devotiona will bave been at a proper diataoce from this hour : you will liape been long enoi^h at other bus* ineBs, to make it proper for you to return to this greatest of all businass, the railing your soul and affections unto God.

Bntifyoubsve risen so late, as to be'hardly able io begin your Jirst devotions at this hour, nbich is proper for your second, you may then<^e learn that the indulging yourself in the tnoming sleep is no small matter; since it sets you bo far back in your devotions, and robs you*bf those graces and blessings, whioh are obtained by frequent prayers.

For if prayer has power with God^if it looses the bands of sin, if it purifies the soul, reforms our hearts, and draws down the aids of difioe grace ; how can that be reckoned a small matter, which robs us of an hour of prayer ?

Imagine yourself somewhere placed in the (dr, as a spectator of all that pauses in the world ; and that you saw in one view, the devotions which all Christian people offer unto God evety day. Imagine that you saw some piously dividing the day ani nighty « the primitive ChrislianB did, and coostant at hTi hours of devotion, singing psalms, and calling upon God, at all those times (he saints and martyrs received their gifts and graces from God.

Imagine that you saw others living without any rules, aa to times and frequency of prayer, and only at their devotions sooner or later, as sleep.and laziness happens to permit them.

Now if you was (o see this, as God sees it, how do you suppose you should be affected with this sight t What judgment do you imagine you should pass upon ^ these different sorts of people ? Could you think, that those who were thus essct in their rules of demotion, got nothing by their exactness ? Could you think, that their prayers were received just in the same manner, and pro- cured them DO more blessings tSan theirs do, who pre- fer laziness and indulgence, to times and rules of' devo- tion?

Oould you take the one to be as true servants of Ood,



Sl4 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

•s the other J Couid 7011 inagiM, (hat thofi6 who were thu3 different in iheir livei, would &i(l bo difference in their statea after death } Coold yo\i thiok it a matter of indifierence, to which of these people 70U were most like?

If not, let it be now jour care to join yourself to that nqnber of devout people, to tbat society of saints, amongst whom you desire to be found, when you leare the world.

Aad altboogh tho bare number and repetition of our prayers is of little value, yet since prayer rig^htl^ and at- tentively performed, ia the most natural means of amend- ing' aad purifying'our hearts; siuce opportunity and fre- qoeucy m prayer.is as much pressed upon us by scrip* ture, aa prayer itself, we may be sure, that when we are frequent and importuoate in our prayers, we are taking the best means of obtaining the hig^hest benefits of a de- vout life.

And on the other hani), they who through negligeneet laziness, or any otber indulgence, render themselves either'^ unable, or uninclined to observe rules and hours of devo- tion, we may be sure, that they deprive fheroselveS of those graces audftlessini^ which an esact and fervent de- votion procures from Qod.

Now as this frequency of prayer is fonnded in the doctrines of Scripture, and recommended to us by the practice of the true worshippers of God; so we ought not to think ourselves excused from it, but where ne can shew, that we are spending our time in socb busi- ness, as is more acceptable to God, than these returns of prayer.

Lenst ofalt must we imagine, that dulness, negligence, indulgence, or diversions, can be any pardonable excuses for our not observing an exact and frequent method of

If you we of a devout spirit, yon will rejoice at these returns of prayer, which keep your soul in an holy enjoy- ment ofGod; which charge your pa!>sions into divine love, and nil your heart with stronger joys and consolations, tbnn you can pos*ibly meet wiih in any thing else. ,

And if you are not of a devout spirit, then you Hre moreover obliged to tim frequency of prayer, to trai;^



DEVOUT AND UOLT tIFE. 2tS

and exercise your heart into a (rue sense vad deling of deyot.on.

Now seeing' the holy spirit of the Christian religion, and the example of the saints of all agfS, calls upon you thus to divide the Any in(n hours of prayer ; so it will l>e highly beneficial to you, to make a rtghl cho.ce of ihoee matters which are to be the fuhject of yow pravers, ud lo keep every hour of pmjeF appropriated to Eonip par- ticular subject, which you may alterorenlai^, accord. ng as the slate you are in requires.

By this means, you will base an opportunity of being laige aud particular in alt the parts ot any Virtue or grace, which yuu then make the subject of your prayers. And by asking for it in all its pertN, and making it the Bubstance of a whole prayer once every day, you will lOon find a mighty change in your hear! ; and that you cannot thu< constantly pray for all the parts of any virlu^ errry day ofyourjife, and yet live (he rest of the day contrary to it.

If a worldly m'nded man wa^ to pray cvtrj day against all the instrtijcris of a worldly temper; if he should make a large description of the ttoiplations of covetousness, and desire God to assist him to reject lliem all, and to disappo nl him in all his covetous design', he would lind bis conscience so much awakened, that he wotjld be forced either tS'foraake such prayers, or to forsake a worldly life.

The same will hold true, in any other instance. And if we ask, and have not, it is hecaiile we ask amiss. Be.- cauie we a^k m cold and general forms, such as only name Ihq virtues without describing their particular parts, «uch as ape not enoi^h particular to our condition, and therefore make i>o change m cur hearts. Whereas when a man enum.'rntes all the parls of any virtue in bis prayers, his conscience is thereby awakened, and he is friglitened at seeing bow far short he is of it. '.And Ihii atirs him up to an i-rdour in devotion, when he sees how much he w.mts of Ihat virtue which he is praj'ing fw.

I have in the last cbapteaJftd before you the excellent cy of praise and thanksa; viiig^nnd n-commended that 9f Ihe subject of your tirst devotiuus in the monui^

Google



CALL TO A

'^

And because ao humble lUte of seul is tbe j&rj state- '. of reli^OD, because humilitj is the life and soul ofpiety, tbe fouDitatioD and support of every virtue and good work, the best guard aud securi^ of all hoi; nffections ; I shall recommend humility to you, as highly proper to be made the coDstant vubject of your devotiooi, at this third hour o^the day ; earnestly desiring you to think no day safe, or likely lo end well, in which you have not thus early put yourself in this posture of humility, and called upoa God to carry you through the day in the ezerciae- of a meek aud lowly spirit

This Tirlue is e* essential to the right state of our ■oula, that there is no pretending to a reasonable or pioos life without it We may as well think to see without eyes, or to live without breath, as to live ii^ the spirit of religion, without the spirit of humility.

Aod although it is thus the soul aud essence of all re- ligious duties, yet is it, geoerally speaking, the least oo- deretood, the least regarded, the least intended, ihe least desired, aad sought after, of all other virtues, amongst ai\ >sorts of Christians.

No people have more occasion to be afraid of tbe ap- proaches of pride, thxo those who have made some ad- vances in a pious life. For pride can grow us well apwL our virtues as our vices, and steals upon as on all occa* «ons. fi

Every good thought that we have, every good actioa that we do, lays us open to pride, and exposes us to the as».iults of vanity andllelf-satisfaciioo.

It is not only the beauty of our persons, the gifts of fortune, or our natural talents, and the distinctions of life ; but even our devotions and alms, our fastings an^ humili- ations, expose us to fresh and strong temptations of this evil spirit.

And it is for this reason, that I so earnestly advise every devout person to begin every day in this exercise of humility, that he may go on in safety under the pro- tection of bis good guide, and not fall a sacrifif^e to his own pr<%ress in those virtues, which are to save mankind from destruction. j|L

Humility does not consisf'in having a worse opinio* of oarselTes than we deserve, or in abasing oursclve*



OEVOUT AND HOLT LIFH. m

loner than we. really fire. But as all TiFtue is fouDded in truth, so humility is founded in a true and just sense of*' out wealcaesi, misery, and sin. He that rightly feels and lives in this sense of his coBdItion, lives in humility.

The weakoess ol our state appears from our inability to do any thing as of ourselves. Id our nalural state vre are entirely without any power ; we are indeed active lu- lags, but can only act by a power, that ia every moment lent us from God.

We have no more power of our own to move a hand or stir a foot, than to move the sun, or stop the clouds.

. When we speak a word, we feel no more power in ourselves to do it, than we feel (Hirselves able to raise the dead. For we act d« more within our own power, or ' by our own strength, when we speak a word, or make a «ouad, tbad the apostles acted within their own power, or by their own streugtb, when a word from their mouth ' cast out devils, and cured diseases.

As it was solely the power of God that enabled them to §pe)tk to such purposes, so it is solely the power of God that enables us to speak at all.

We indeed lind that we can speak, as we find that we are alive ; bul the actual exercise of speaking is no more ia our own power, than the actual eDJoyment of life. ' This is the dependant, helpless poverty of our state ; which is a great reason for humility. For since we neith- er are, nor can do any thing of oureelves, to be proud of any thing that we are, or of any thing that we can do, and to ascribe glory to ourselves for these things, as our own ornaments, has the guilt both of stealing and lying. It has the guilt of stealing, as it gives to ourselves those thii^ which only belong to God. It has the guilt of lying, as it is the denying the truth of our state, and pretending to be something that we are not.

Secondly, Another ai^ument for humility, is founded ia the misery of our condition.

Now the misery of our condition appears in this, that we use the borrowed powers of our nalure, to the tor- ment and vexation of ourselves, and our fellow-crea- tures.

God Almighty has entrusted us with the use of reason, MBd we use it to the disorder and ctaruption of our nk 18



21t A aaUOUS CALL TO A

tore- We reanoo ourselves into al^ kinds of folly and misery, and make our lives the iiport of foolish and e& trava^aot passions : Seeking after imaginury happiness in all kinds of shapes, creating to ourselves a thousand wants, antistng our hearts with false hopes and fears, using the world worse than irrational mimale, eBvying;, vexiDg and tormeHting one another with restless passions, and unrea- sou<tiilu contentions.

Let any man but look back upon bis own life, and see what use he has m^ide of his reason, how little he baa consulted it, and how- less he has followed it V/hiA foolish passions, what vain thoughts, what needless la- bours, what extravagant projet^s, have taken up the greatest part ot' bis life. How foolish he has been ia his words and conversation; how sel4ain be has done w«ll with judgment, and how often he has been kept from doing ill by accident; how seldom he has been ttlile to please himself, and how often he has displeased others ; how often he has changed his counsels, hated what he loved, and loved what he hated ; how often he has been enraged and transported at tn*fles, pleased and displeased with the very same things, and constantly «htmging from one vanity to ^another. Let a man but take this view of his own life, and he will see reason •nough to confess, that pride was not made for man.

Lei him but consider, that if the -world knew all that of him, which he knows of himself; if they saw what vanity and passions govern his inside, and what secret tempers sully and corrupt his best actions, he would have no more pretence to he honoured and admired fer his goodness and wisdom, than a rotten and distempered body to he loved and admired ibr its beauty and come-

This is so true, and so known to the hearts of almost all people, that nothing would appear aiore dreadful to them, (haD to have their hearts thus fully discovered to the eyes of all beholders.

And perhaps there are very few people in the world, who would not rather < boose to die, than to have all their secret follies, the errors of their judgments, the vanity of their minds, the falseness of their pretences, the fre- t^iKB^y of their vwB and disorderly passions, tbeir unft^-



DEVOUT AND HOLY Lira. " *»

siiMss,. hatreds, envies, and vexatkws, made kDomi ant* the world.

And shall pride he entertained in a heart thus conscious of its own miaerable behaviour?

Shall a creature in such a condition, that he could not support himself tinder the shame of being known to the world in his real state : chall such a creature, becaiuel^s shame is only known to God, to holv angels, and bis mvn conscience ; shall he, in the sight of God and holy angels, dare to be Tain and proud of himself 7

Thirdly, If to this we add the shame and gnilt of ait», we shall find still a greater reason for humility. - No creature that had lived in innocence, would have thereby got any pretence for self-honour and esteem ; becnuse as a creature, all that it is, or has, or does, is from God, and therefore the honour of all that belongs to it, is only due to God.

But if a creature that is a sinner, and under the dis- pleasure of the great Governor of all the world, and de- serving nothing from him, but pains and punishments for the sli^imeful abuse of his poivers : if Such a creatore pretends to self-glory for any thmg that he is, or does, h« can o:ily he said to (liory in his shame.

Now how monstrous and shameful the nature of ^ is, is sulficiently apparent froitt that great atonement that is necessary to cleanse us from the guilt of it.

Nothing less has been required to take away the guilt ©four sins, than the sutferings and death of the Son nf God. H-id he not fatten our nature upon him, our nature bad been forever separated from God, and incaa|ble of ever appearing before him.

And is there any room for pride or seff^lory, whilst we are partakers of sunh a nature as this ?

Have our sins rendered us so ^ominable and odious to him that made us, that he could not so much as receive our prayers, or admit our repentance, till the Son of God made himself man, and became a suffering advocate for our whole race ; and can we in this stale pretend to high houghls of ourselves 1 Shall we presurap to lake delight in our own worth, who are not worthy so much as to ask pardon for our sins, without the mediation and i»lerces- sionof theSoaofQod?



am 1 SERIOUS call to a

Thns deep is the fonndatioD of bnmilit; lud, in t&esr deplorable circumatances of onr condition; which Bbew» hat it i> as great an offence against truth, and the reason oflhin^, for a man in this itate of things to lay claim to- any degrees of glory, as to pretend to the honour of cre- ating himself. If a man nill boast of any thing as hii own^ he aust boast of hia misery and am ; for there is nothing else but this, that is his own property.

Turn your eyes towards heaven, and fancy that you •ee what is doing there ; that you see cherubim and •eraphim, and all Ihe glorious inhabitants of that plncp^ all united in one work ; not seeking glory from one aaotb- er, not labouring their own advancement, not contemplat- ing their own perfections, not singing their own praises, BOt raining themselves, and despising others, but all em- ployed in one and the same work; all happy in one and ihe same joy ; autitig down their erortms before ike ikrcnt mf God, giving glory, and honcur, and power lo him alone. ftev.iT. 10, II.'

Then torn your eyes to the fallen world, and consider how unreasoDable and odious it must be, for such poop worms, such miserable sinners, to take delight in their SWn fancied glories, whilst the highest and roost gloriont sons of heaven, seek for no other greatness, and honour, but that of ascribing all honour and greatness, and glory toGodnlooe?

Pride is only the disorder of the fallen world, it has no place amongst other beings ; it can only subsist where ignorance and sensuality, lies and falsehood, lusts and impuiil^ reign.

Let a man, when he is most delighted with bis own ngiare, look njton a cruci6x, and contemplate our blessed Lord stretched out, and nailed upon a cross ; and then let him consider, how absurd it must be, for a heart full of pride and vanity, to pray to God, through the sufferings of such a meek and crucified Saviour ?

These are the reflections which you are of^en to med- itate upon, that you may thereby be disposed to walk be- fore God and man in such a spirit of humility, as becomes the weak, miserable, sinful state of all who are descended from fallen Adam.

When you have by lucb general reflectians as these.



DEVOUT AND HOLY UFE. «1

convinced jr our mind of Ihe reasonableoess of humility, you must notv content yourseir with this, as if you was therefore humbled, because your mind acknowle4ges the reastmnbleness of humility, and declares against pride. But you mu'tt immediately. enter yourself into the prac- tice of this virtue, like a young beginner, that has all of it to learn, that can learn but little at a time, and nitli grant difiicuily. You mu»t consider, that you have not only this virtue to learn, but thai you must be content to proceed as a learner in it all your time, endeavouring after greater decrees of it, and practising every day acts of humility, as you every day practise acts of devo- tion.

You would not imagine yourself to be devout, becaiiEC , in your judgment you approver of prayers, and often declared your mind in favour of devotion. Yet how many people imagine themselves humble enough for ao olbol- rea^on, but because they often commend humility,-and make vehement declarations against prided

Cfcus is a rich man, of good birth, and very fine parte, he is fond of dre^ss, curious in the smallest matters that can add any ornanient to his pera'on. He is haughty and imperious to all his inferiors, is very full ofevery thing that he says or does, and never imagines it possible for such a judgment as his (o be mistaken. He can bear no coulraiiiction, and discovers the weakness of your un- derstanding, as soon as ever you oppose him. He changes every thing In his house, his habit, and his equipage, as often 39 any thing more elegant comes in his way. Cascui would have been very religious, hut that he ^ways thought he was so. •

There is nothing ao odious to Caecus as^ proud man ; and the m'sfortune is, that in this he is so very quick- sighted, that he discovers in almost every body, some strokes of vanity.

On the other hand, he is exceeding fond of bumble and modest persons. Humility, says he, is so amiable a quality, th^t it forces our estefem wherever we meet with it. There is no possibihty of despisipg the meanest person that baa it, or of esteeming the greatest man that wants it -

Caucus DO more suspects himself to be proud, than he



■aP A SERIOUS CALL' TO A

mspects hie want of seoae. And the reaaon of it is, btf- cause he alivayH finds himself in love with hatnitily, and ap eiirag«<) at pride.

It is very true. Caucus, you speak siDCcrely when job say yon love humiLty, raid abhor pride. You are do hypocrite, you apeak the true aentimenla of yoor tnind; but then tale this alon^ nith voa, Csecus, that you only love hiimihty, and hate pride, in other people. You never OQce in your life thought of any other humility, or of any other pride, than that which yon have seen in oth- er people.

The ca]se*of Cxcus is a commoQ case ; many people live in all the instances of pride, and indulge every raoity that can enter into their minds, and yet never suspect themselves to be governed by pride and vanity, because th^ know how much they dislike proud people, and how mightily they are pleased with humility and modes^^ wherever they find them. ,

All their speeches ia,tavour of humility, and all their railings againit pride, are looked upon as so many true eierclses, and effects of their own humble spirit.

Whereas in truth, these are so far from being proper acts, or preofs of humility, that they are great ai^umenti of t'le want of it

For the fuller of pride any one ia himself, the more im|^tient will he be at the smallest instances of it in oth- er people. And the less hutnihiy any one has in his own mind, the more will he demand, and be -delighted with it in other people.

Ygtt must therefore act by a quite contrary measure, and iWkoo yourself only so far humble, as you impose every inslandk of humihiy upon yourself, and never call for it in other people. So far an enemy to pride, as yoa never.spare it in younelf, nor even censure it in other persons.

Now in order to do this, you need only consder, that pride and humility signify nothing to you, but so ikr as they are your own ; that they do yon neither good nor harm, but as they are the tempers of your own heart.

The loving therefore of humility is of no benefit or ailrantage to jou, but lo far w yOn love t« see all yooe



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE; 233

own thou^Li, words and acttooa governed by it. And tiie hating of pride does jou no good, ia no perfectioa ia you, but so Tar as you bate to harbour auy degae of J( iD yoDf omi heart.

Now in order to begin, aod set out wetl in the practice of humility, jou must take it for granted, that you are proud, that you have all your life teen more or less in- fected with this unreasonable temper.

You should believe aUo, Ihat it ia your greatest weak- ness, 'that your heart is most subject to it, that it is so cooatantly atealing upon you, that you have reaaon to watch and suspect its approachea in all your*cfions.

For thia is what most people, eapecially new begin- ners in a pious Lfe, may with great truth think of them- •civea.

For there is no one vice that ia more deeply rooted in our nature, or that receives such constant nourishment from almost every thing that we think or do. There be> ing hardly any thing in the world that we want or use, or any action or duty of life, but pnde finds soroe means or other to take hold of it. So that at what time aoever we begin to offer ourselves to God, we can hardly be surer of any thing, than that we have a great deal of pride to repent of.

If therefore you find it disagreeable to your mind to entertain this opinioD of yourself, and that you cnnnol^ut yourself amongst those Utat want to be cured of pAe, you may be as sure, as if an angel from heaven had told you, that you have not only much, but all your humility to seek.

For yon can have no greater sign of a more confirmed pride, than vhen you think that you are humble enough- He that thinks he loves God enough, shews himself to be an entire stranger to that holy passion ; so he that thinks be has humility enough, shews that he is not ao much a9 » beginner in the practtce of true humility.



c4iz=.JnGooglc



L SERIOUS CALL TO A



^Fwin^ how difficult (li« practice of honulilj U ma^e, by th* (teiierul spirit and ttniper of (he worlil. How ChiiBtimutj re- quireth as to live caDtrarjlo the World.

EVE|IY penton, wben he first applies liimself to the exercise of this virtue orhumihtj, must, as I said be- ror<?, considor himself as a learner, tbat is, to le.am some- thing that is conlr^try to former tempers, ani] h»i>its of miixl, anil which can only be got by dally and constaat pr.iclice.

He has Dot only as much to do, as be that has some'' new arl or i^ctence to learn ; but he has also a great deal to unlearn : He is to foi^Ft, and lay aside his own spirit, which has been a long while fixing and forming itself; he muM forget, and depart from ibundance of pnssioos and opinions, which the fashion, and vogue, and spirit of the world has made natural to him.

He mu'^t lay aside his own spirit ; because, as we are

born in sin, so in pride, which is as natural to us as self

l<M|e, and continually springs from it. As this is one rea-

J son why Christianity isso often represented a* a new birth,

and a new spirit. ^

He must lay aside the opinions and passions which he has ivceived from the world, because the vegue and fash- ion of the world, by which we have been iarried away, as in a torrent, before we could pass right judgments of the value of things, is in many respects contrary to hu- mility ; so that we must unlearn what the spirit of the / world has taught us, before we can be>goveraed by the spirit of humility.

The devil is called in Scripture the prince ofthis world, because he has great power in it, because many of its rules and principles are invented by this evil tpicit, the fatlier of alt lies and falsehood, to separate us from God^ and prevent our return to happines*.



c4iz=.JnGooglc



DEVOUT AND HOLT LffX.

•Now accordii^lo'the spirit and togue of t] wfaoH comjpt air we have all breathed, there ttuDga that pasa for great, and honourable, anc «irable, wtoeb jet are go far irom being so, tha greatness and honour of our nature consists deiiring them.

To abound in wealth, to have fine hoasei •lothes, to be attended with splendour and eqi be beautiful in onr persons, to have titles of d be above our fellow creature§, to command the eheigQDce^f other people, to be looked on wil liMi, to overcome oor enemies with power, to that oppose us, to set ourselves "in as much apl< we can, to live highly and magnificently, to eat : and delight onrselves in the most costly mam are the great, the hooourable, the desirable which the spirit of the world turns the eyes o^ And many \ man is afraid of standing still, a^i ing in the pursuit of these things, lest the sa] ihould take him for n fool.

The history of the gospel, is chiefly the 1 Christ's conquest over this spirit of the world, number of (rue Christians, is only the numbei who, following the Spirit of Christ, have lived c this spirit of the world.

If any man kalh not t/ie Spirit of Christ, heitn Again, fVhtaoever it bom of God, cmercomtth Stt your affections on things abate., and not on ihi tarth ;for ye are dead, and your life i* kid wtlft On This is the langnage of the New Testament. 1 mark of Christianity ; you are to be dead, that i: the spirit and temper of the world, and live a n the Spirit of Jesus Christ.

But notwithstanding the clearness and plainne) doctrines which thus renounce the world, yel f of Christians live and die slaves to the custom-* ai •f the world.

How many people swell with pride and vanity tbmge as they woald not know how to value a .that they are admired in the world ?

Would a man take ten years more drudgery Head to add two horses more to his coach, bul



»M A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Inowa, that the world most or all admires a coacb ancf «ii ? How iearfut are many people of having their hous- es 'poorly furnished, or themselves meaaly clothed, for this ouly reasoD, lest the world should make do ac- coHul of (hem, and place them amongist loir and mean people !

How oAen would a man have jneldeil^to the haughti- Bess and ill nature of olhem, and shew a submissive teta- per, but that he dares not pass for such a poor spirited kan in the opiniOD of the world

Many a mao ivould oSien drop a reseQlment, and for- give an affront, but that be is afrsid, if he should, the world would not foi^ve hiro. -

How many would practise Christian temperance and sobriety in its utmost perfection, were it not for (he cen- sure which the world passes upon such a life.

Others have frequent inteniioiis of living up 1» the rules of Chtistian perfection, which they are fright- ened fronij.by considering what the world would say of them.

Thus do the impressions which we have received from hving in the. world enslave our Blinds, that we dare not attempt to be eminent in the sight of God, and ho- ly angels, for fear of being little in the eyes of the

From this quarter ailses the great difficulty of humil' ity, because it cannot subsist in any mind, but so far as it is dead to the world, and has parted with all desires of enjoyiag all greatness and honours. So that in order to be truly feumble, you must unlearn all those notion! which you have been all your life learning from this cor- rupt spirit of the wwld.

You can make no stand against the assaults of pride, the meek affections of humility can have no place in your, soul, till you stop the power of the world over you, and resolve against a blind obedience to its Inw^.

And when you are ooce advanced thus far, as to be able to stand still in the torrent of worldly fashions and opinions, and examine, the worth and value of things which are most admired and valued in the world, yoo lw» gone a great way in the gaining of your freedom,



i^Googlc^



■DETOUT AND HOLT LIFE. SM

•nd hnve laid a good foundation for the ameDdment of your heart.

For as great as the power of the world is, it is all buitt upon a bliod obedieDce, and we Deed onJy open ourcyt^s, to get quit of its power. Ask who you will, leampd or HDlearned, every one seems to know and confess, that the general temper and spirit of the worUl, is nothing else bat kumour, folly and extravagance.

Who will not own, that the w.sdom of pbilo«ophy, the piety of religion, was always confined to a email niirobeff And IS not this expressly owning and confessing, that the common sp'rit and temptrr of the world, is neither ■ according to the wisdom of philosophy, nor the piety of religion?

The world therefore seems enough condemned even by itself, to make il very easy for a thinking man to be of the same judgment.

And therefore I hope you will not think it a hi^ saying, that in order to be humble, you muM withdraw your obedience from that rulgar spirit which gives laws to fops and coqueltes, nnd form your judgments accord- ing to the wisdom of philnsopby and the piety of reli- g on. Wiio would be afraid of making such a change at this?.

Again, To lessen your fear and regard to the opinion of the wftrld, think how soon the world will disregard you, and have no more thought oi> concorn about youj th'in !ibout the poorest animal that died in a ditch.

Your fr.en.la, if they can, may bury you with some distinction, and set up a monument to let posterity see thdt your dust lies under such a «tone ; and when that is done^ all is done. Your place is 6lled up by another, the world IS just in the same slate it was, you are blotted out of Its sight, and a« much forgotten by the world as ifyou bad never belonged to it.

Think upon the rich, the great, and the learned per- sons, that have made great figure^', and t>een high in ibe esteem of the world ; many of them died in your time, aq^ yet they are sunk and lost, and gone, and as much disregarded by the world, as if they hild been only so jnany bubbles of water,

^bink again, how many poor soals see hearen lost, ao4



3n A SERIOUS CALL TO A

lie DOtr expeetii^ a nuMrable eternity, for their senic« and liomage to a world, that thinks itself every wbit a* trcll without them, and is just as merry as it nas when they were in il.

Is it therefore worth yonr while to lose the smallest degree of virtue, for the sake of pleasing so bad a mas- ier, and so fabe a friend as the world is ?

Is it worth your while to how your knee to auch an Uol as this, that so soon will have neither eyes, dot ears, Wt>r a heart to regard you ; instead of serving the great, and holy, and m^hQr God, thnt will make all his servants parlnkers of his own eternity ?

Will you let the fear of a false world, that has no love for you, keep you from the fear of that God, who haa only created you, that he may love and blese you to all *temity 1

Lastly, yon must consider what behaviour the profes- sion of Chnstianjty requireth of you, with regard to (he world ;

Now this is plainly delivered in these words ; Whm gave hvnaelf for our «ij«, that he might deliver lu from thispre$ent wti w(H-W,Gal. i. 4. Christianity therefore implieth a deliverance from this world ; and he that pro- fesseth to live contrary to every thing, and every temper^ that is peculiar to this evil world.

St. John declareth this opposition to the woM in this manner: -They are^fthe world, therefore speak they of the tKorW, and the world htareth them. We are of God, I John iv. 6. This is the descriptloD of the followers of Christ ; and it is proof enoagh that no people are to be reckoned Christians in reality, who in their hearts aud tempers belong to this world. We know, saitb the same apostle, that we are t>f God, and the whole world Heth in wiekedneM, c. v. ver. 19. Christians therefore can no farther know that they are of God, than so far as they know that they are not of the world ; thut is, that they do not lire according to the ways and spirit of Ihe world. For all the ways, and maiims, and politics, and tempera of the world, lie in wickednest. And he is only of God, or bom of God in Christ Jesus, who has overcome thii worJdi that is, who has chose to live by laith| and goren



D5i,.=.JnGooglc



. , DEVOUT AMp HOLT LITB.

iuA ftctiODB hy the principles of a wisdom reTi God by Christ Jesus.

St. Paul takes it 'far a certainty so mil Cbiistiiins, that they are no loager to be coi living in this worJtl, that he thus ar^es from an uodeniable principle, concerning; the abv rites of the Jewish law : Wherefor:e if ye bi Ckriit from lite rudinuMt) of the worid, ■why, Uvii^ in the. world, are. ye atdyject- ta ordinal ii- 20. Here could be no argumeot in this, apostles' taking it for undeniable, that Chris thai their profession required (hem to have d< the tempers aod passions of this world, to lire 4>f the new Jerusalem, aad to have their coav heav^.

Our blessed Lord himself has fully determine in these words : Tlity are not vftkU ■a;orld, as thit -Bforld. This is the state of Christianity > to this world. If yon are not Ihns out of, and the world, yon want the distiD^ishiog' mark o jty^ you do aot belong to.CJirist, but by bcinj ■vorld as he was ont of it.

We may deceive .ourselvea, if we please, wi «ofteaiD^ commands upon these woi;ds, but th< will be undesatood in their lirst simplicity an by everyone that reads tbem in the sapie spii blessed Lord spoke Ibem. And to uodcrstai soy lower, less significant menaing, is to let dom explain away that doctrine, by which itse idestroyed.

The Christianas great conquest over the w footained in the mystery of Christ upon thi was there, and from thence, that he> taught al how they were to come out of, and conquer tatA what they were to do in order to be his And all the doctrines, sacraments, and ins ih« Gospel, are only so many eiplicationa ol i^, and applications of the benelit of this

And the state of Christianity implieth n ImtaD entire, absolute confortoity to that t



ii,.=.jnGooglc



K30 A SHUOIB CALL TO A ,

Chrict shewed in the raTsterions sacriice of himself ufm the croM.

Every mso therefore, is pnly bo far a Christian as be partakes of this tpirit of Chriit. . It was this that made St. Paul so pasaionatel; ezpreM himself, God forbid that I ihouid gtory, tave in tht croii of our Lord Java Chritt : but viaj does he gtor; ? Is it because Christ had suffered in hiaatead,and hadexcusedhim fromsufEenog? No, bj no means. But it was because his Christisa profession had called him to the boaour of suffering with Christ, and of dying to the world under reproach and •ontempt, as he had done upon the crom. For he im- mediatelj adds, bv whom the -neorld u erveified unto nu , and I unto tht world. Gal. vi. 14. This you see was the rea- son of kis glorying in the cross of Christ, because te bad •ailed him to a tike state of death and crutifixion to the

Thus wa» the cross of Christ in St. Paul's days, (be glory of Christians ; not as it signified their not being ashamed to own a Master that was crucified, but as it signified their gliHjing in a reUgion, which was nothing else but a doctrine of the cross, that called them to th« same sufTeriog spirit, the same sacrifice of themselves, ths ssme renunciation of the world, the same humility and meekness, the same patient bearing of injuries, reproach- es, and contempts, and the tame dying to all tRb gr^at- nesf, honours, and happiness of the world, wh^ Chriit shewed upoathe cross. ■

To hare a true idea of Christianity, we must not coif sider our blessed Lord as sufiering in our eteadj hut a> our representative, acUng in our name, and with suck particular merit, as to make our joining with faim accept- able unto God.

He suffered, and was a sacrifice, to make our sufferings and sacrifice of ourselves fit to be received by Ged. And we are to suffer, to he crucified, to die, and rise with Christ ; or else his crucifixion, death and resurrecliom will profit us nothing.

The necessity of this conformity to all that Christ did, end suffered upon our account, is verjr plain from the whole tenor of Scripture.

Firat, As t* his suffeiings, this it the ontj condition



DEVOUT AND HOLT LITO. ■ S31

# «f our bein^ saved by them, if "ne sufiemilb him, we shall also reign with him."

Secondly, As to his crucifixions " Kngwtng this, that our old man is crucified with htm," &c. Hom. vk6. Hereyoa see Christ is not crucified in our stead; Bat unless our old m»D be really crucified with him, tha^ cross of Christ will profit ut nothing.

Thirdly, As to the deKth of Christ, the_ conditioo is this; "If we be dead with Christ, we believe that we sbnll also live with him." If therefore Christ be dead alone, if we are not de»d with him, we are as sure, from this scripture, that we shall not live with him.

L-iitly, as to the resurractioQ of Christ, the scripture sheweth us how we are to p.-irtake of the benefit of it : " If ye be risen with Christ, seek those things which are aljove, where Christ si Iteth on the right hand of God." Col. iii. I.

- Thus you see how plainly the scripture sets forth oar WewedLord, as our representative, acting and suffering in our name, binding and obliging us to confoi'm to all that he did and suffered for us. .

It was for this reason, that the Holy Jesus said of bis disciples, and in them of alt true believers, " They are not of this worid, as 1 am not of this world," Because all true believers conforming to the sufTerings, crucifixion, death, mid resurrection of Christ, live no longer after Ibe spirit a qj^te mper of this worid, but their Ufe is hid with Christ iSfeod.

This is tbe state of separation from the world, to which all orders of Christians are called. They must so far re- nounce all worldly tempers, be so far governed by the things of another life, as td shew, that they are truly and really crucified, dead, and risen with Christ. And it is ' as necessary for all Christians to conform to this great change of spirit, to be thus in Christ new creatures, as it was necessary that Chri?t should suffer, die, and rise Bgai^ for our salvation.

How high the Christian life is placed above the ways of this world, is wonderfully described by St. Paul in these words : " Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh; yea though we have known Christ pfteo fte flesh; yet henceforth we know hunno more. There-.-



tSa A SERIOUS CALl TO A

fore it' any moo be in Christ, h« i> a new creature : ttlii thiDgsare passeil avr^y; behold all thto^ arc beceme new." 2 Cor. v. 16."

He that feels the force and Bpint of these words, caS" hardlj bear any human interpretation of tbem. Hence- Ibrth, says hc ; that if, since the death and resurrection of Christ, the stale of Cbristiunity is becoine so giarioo^ a state, that we do not even consider Christ hiioaelf ae ill (he flesh npon earth, but as a God of g'lorj in heaven ; we know and consider ourselves not as men in the flesh, but as fellow-members of a new society, that are to have all oar heorb, our tempen, and coarersatioD 'in heaven.

Thus it fa that Christianity has placed ns out of, and above the world ; and we fall from our caUiof , as sooa as we fall into the tempers of the wprld.

Now as it was the spirit of the world that nailed onr blessed LoFd to the cross ; so every man that has the spirit of Christ, that opposes the world, as be did, will certainly be crucified by the world some way or •Iher.

For Christianify still lives in the same worid that Christ did ; and these two will be utter enemies, till the kingdom of darkness is entirely at an end.

Had you lived with our Saviour as his true disciple, you had then been hated as he was ; and if you now Jive in his s^nrit, the world will be the same vfftny to you now, that it was to him then. '*^

"If ye were of the worid," saith our blesied Lord, "the world would love its own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen yoii out of tire world, therefore the world hatelh you." John sv. 19,

We are apt to lose the true meaning of these words, by considering them only as an historical description of something that was the itate of our Saviour and his dis- ciples at that time. But this is reading the scriptures as a dead letter ; for fhey as eiactly describe the state of true Christians at Ibis, and all other limes to the end of the world.

For as true Christianity is nothing else but the spirit of Chrtai, 90 whether that spirit appear in the person of Christ himgeifj or Jus apostles, or foUowera in ariy agej



■ DEVOTTT Alto HOLT LIEE. * 239

» it is the same thin^j whoever hath his spirit will be bated, despised, and coDtlemDed by Ae world as he was.

For the world will always lore Its own, andnoae but its own; this ia as certain aod uDchangeable, as the con- trariety betwixt light and darkoess. ^

When the holy Jestis saith, If the vorJd hate you, (he does not add by way of consolatioD, that it may some time or other cease its hatred, or that it will not always hate them ; but he only gives this as a reason for their beariog it,) Tou know that it htUed me hefon ithattdyou: Migaifyiog that it was he, that is, his spirit, that by rea- aon of its cootrariety to the ' world, was then, and always wonld he hated by it

Yoa will perhaps say, that the world is now become Christian, at least that part of it where we live ; and therefore the world is not to be considered lu that state •f oppositioa to Christianity, as when it was heathen.

It is granted, the world now professeth Christianity, but will any one say, that this Christian world is of the spiritof Christ? Are its general tempers the tempers of Christ? Are the passions of seosunlity, self-love, pride, covetonsaese, ambition, and rain glory, leas coiitrary to ttie spirit of the gospel, now they are amongst Christians, than when they were amongst heathens? Or will you say, that the tempers and passions of the heathen world ate lost ^d gone? •

Conaki Secondly, What you are to mean by the world. ^Rw this is folly described to our bands by St. ■John. Jilt that m in tin world, the luat of the Jieih, the hut of the eyei, and the pride of life. Sic, 1 John iii. 16. This is an exact and full description of the world. Now will you say, that this world is become Christian ? But if all this still subsists, then th^ same world is now in be- ing, and the same enemy to Christianity, that was in St. John's days.

It was this world Uiat St John condemned, as being not of the Father; whether, therefore, it outwardly pro- fesseth, OF openly persecuteth Christianity, it is still in the same state of contraries to the true spirit and holiness of the gospel.

And indeed the world by professing Christianity, ia so 20*

L- ..I, Google



i*4 ^ A SEHICHJ3 CAt-L TO A

far from bein;^ a Ic-t daosterous enemy than it waa befurff, tbnt il has by it^ lav ours destroyed more Christians thwi eTcr it did by the most Tiolent pewecntian.

We must therefore be !"o far from considering the world j

as in a state of lesa enmity and oppositiou to CbristiaDlty, than it was in the firet "timcsof the f^ospel, that we mint guard against tt aa a greater and more dangerous enemy now, than it was in those limef.

It is a greater enenw, because it has greater power •Ter Christians by its faFOurs, riches, faonoare, rewards, and protectione, than it had by the fire and fury of its peiw tec ut ions.

It b n more dangeroni enemy, by having lost its ap- petirance of enmity. Its outward profession of Cbri^ tianity makes it no longer considered as an^ enemy, and therefore the generality of people are easily persuad- i

ed to resign themselvea up to be goF«raed and directed '

by it. ^

How many consciences are kept as quiet, upoti no otb* ^Bl «r foundation, but because they sin under the authority q{ the Christian world ! I

How many directions of the g;ospel lie by unregerded; and how unconcernedly do particular persons read tbem ; for no other reason, but because they seem tmregardec) by the Christian world?

Hbw maay compliaoces do people make to J^ Chris- tian world, without any hesitation, or remo^Kwhich, if they had l>cen required of them only bym&thens, would have been refused, as contrary to the holiness of i

Christianity ?

Who could be content with seeing how contrary turn ■ life is to the gospel, but because he sees that be Utcb a« the Christian world doth ?

Who that reads the gospel, wonld want to be persuad- ed of the necessity of great self-denial, humiUty, and poverty of spirit, but that the authority of the world ha> banished this doctrine of the cross?

Tliere is nothing therefore, that a good ChrisfiaD ought to be mnrB siiflpicious of, or more constantly guard ag-Ainsi, than Ihe authori^ of the Christian world.

And a.\\ Ihe passages of licriplure, which represent the ]

world M contrai7 to ChrwUaDit/, which reqnira our seit



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. SIS

aration from it, as from n maminon of iinrighteoomeM, a numster of iniquitj', are alt to ^fjKkti in the same strict sen4(!, in relation to the preseMPffid.

For the change that the ffonB has untfer^one, hat only altered its methods, but not* lessened its pon^ of des- troying reliyon.

Christian! had nothing to fear from the heathen i^rM, "bat thd losfl of their lives ; but the world become a ffiend, makes it difficult for them to save their religion.

Whilst pride, sensualitj', covetou^ness, and arol^itibn, had only the aMthority of the heathen worM, Christian! were thereby made more intent upon the contrary vir- tues. But when pride, sensuality, coretousnesa, and am- bition, hare the autbltrity of the Christian world, then private Christians are in the utmost danger, not only of being shamed out of the practice, but of lotinf the very aotioo of the piety of the gospel.

There is, therefore, hardly any possibility of savin J f. younelf from the presenf world, but by con^j^ring it as the same wicked enemy to all true holiness, as it is rep- resected in the scri]nures ; and by assuriifg yourself, thai it ia as dangerous to ctmform to its tempers and paauoBS, bow Jt ia ChristiaD, as when it was heathen.

For only ask yonraelf, is the piety, the hmnility, the iobniety of the Christian world, the piety, the humility and lebj^T of the Christian spirit T If not, bow can yoa be noti^Hdone bj aay world, than by conforming to that vhich ilR rist ten 7

Need a man do more to make his sonl unfit for the mercy of Ood, than by being greedy and ambitious of honour T Yet how can a man renounce this temper, with- out renounciag the spirit and temper of the world, in which you now iivet

How can'a man be made more incapaUe of the spirit of Christ, than by a wrong value for moaey ; and yet how can he be more wrong in hit value of it, than by fol- lowing the authority of the Christian world T

Nay, in every order and station of life, whether of learning or business, either in Church or state, yoa can- not act up to the spirit of religion without renouncii^ the most general temper and behaviour of those^ who are of Qw lame ord^r and busioeas as yavneU.



3at A staiious cau. to a

And though hoinan pradeoce seema to t^ mi^fy wisely about the necMljb of avoiding ptrliculanties, jet he that dftre« dot to b<IA weak a* to be particaUtr, frill be onen obliged to afoid the inoflt substantial duties of Christian 4^iaty-

These reflection! will, I hope, belp you to break throd^h those difficdtiea,- tmd resist those temptalions, which the authority and fashion <^ the world hatbraised gainst the practice of Christian huouUly.



Shewing hwr the tdacttiiim which men e:Giwran7 receirc ia tfaeir youth, io«kei the doclrine* orhoiuilitj difficult to be practised. The spirit of a better educition, repreieDted in the chareclw

otPalimui. .

ANOIHER difficulty in the practice of bnmilityf arises from our education. We are all of us, for the most part, corruptly educAted, and then committed to take our course in a corrupt world ; so that it is no wcmder, if examples of great piety are so seldom seen.

A great pari of the world are undone, by being bora and bred in families that have no reUgion ; w^re tber are made vicious and irregular, by being lik^^ke with whom they fir»t lived. ^r

Bnt this is not the thing I now mean ; the educatioa that I here intend, is socb as children generally receive from virtuous and sober parents, and learned tutors and governors.

Had we continued perfect, as God created the fint man, perhaps the perfection of our nature 'had been a saflicient self-instruction for every one. But as sickness and diseases have created Ihe necessity of medicinee and phyiiciani, so Ihe change and disorder of our rational nature' has introduced the necessity of education and

And as the only end of (he physician is, to restore n» lure to its own state ; so the only end of educatioD is, to restore our rational nature to its proper state. £dq-



DEVOUT AND HOLT UWE. M7

oation therefore is to be considered^ reaaoa horrowed at second hand, which is, as far jMkpao, to supply the loM ol!«rjgiaal perfectioD. AsgKfhysic majjastlybe ealled the art of restoring healfn^ao educatkia should ba coBsidered in no ottier light, thaa as the art of recovec- iog tq^man the use of his reason.

Now as the instruction of er.ery art or science is (iftnd- •d upon the iliscoVenes, the wisfem, experience, and roaxims of the several great men who have laboured in it ; so that human wiadom, or r^bt use of our rekson, iVhich young people should fe called to by their educa- don, ia nothing else but the best experience and finest reasonings of men, who have deyoted tbemaelves to tb« sludy of wisdom, and .improve meat of hnman nature.

All, therefore, that great saints emd dying men, when

the fullest of ligjit and conviction, and after the highest

ioftproyement of their reason, all that ^ey have said of

^the necessity of piety, of the eicellenc^of virtue, of their

■luty to QoJ, of the emptiness of riches, of the vanity of

P'the world; all the sentences, judgments, reasonings, and

maxims of the wisest of philosophers, tvhen in their tiigh-

est state of ffisdom, should constitute tjie common lesson*

ofins&uction for youthful minds.

This is the only nay to make the yoiti^ and imoranf pnrtof tbe world the better for the wisdom and knowl- edge of t^ wise and ancient.

An e^^ktion which is not wholly intent upon this, i« as much^Kide the point, as an art of physic, that had little or no regard to the restoration of health.

The youths who attended upon Pythagoras, Socratek, Plato, and Epictetu^, were thus educated. Their every day lessons and instructions were so many lectures upon the . natnre of man, bis true end, and the right use of bia facnlties ; upon the immortal!^ of the sotil, it* relation to God, the beauty of virtue, and its agreeableness to the divine nature ; upon the dignity of rekson, the necessity of teraperance, fortitude and generosity, and the shame and folly of indulging our passions.

Now as Christianity has, as it were, new created the moral and religious world, and set every thiag Uiat is reasonable, wise, holy and de^rable, in its true point



S3a 1 SinuoXis call to a

of li^bt; a* one would expect, that Ihe cttucatios pf jouth should be as miHta bettered and amended by Chris- liaoity, aa the &ith ai^VDctrines of religion are amended by it.

As it bas ibtroduced sncb a new state of Uiii^is, and •o full; iafwrned tts of the nature of man, the epds of hit A'eation, the state of his condition ; as it baa fiied all our goods and erib, taught ns the means of pnrifying; Our souls, plesung God, and becoming eternally happy ; one lAight naturally suppose, thai every Christian coun- try abounded with schools for the teaching not only a ftw questions and answers of a catechism, but for the JbnniDg, graining and practising youths in such an outr ward course of Ijfe, as the highest precepts, the strictest rules, and the sublimest doctrines of Christianity re- quire,

An education under Pythagoras, or Socrates, bad no other end, but to teach, youth to think, judge, act, and^ follow such rules of life, as Pythagoras and. SoeraleyV used. ^

And is it not as reasonable to suppose, that a Christian education abould b^ve no other end, but to teach youth how to think, and judge, and act, and live according to the BtrictesJ laws of Christianity.

At least one would suppose, that in all Christian schools, the teaching youth to begin their Uves in the spirit at Christianity, in euch severity of behaviour, wMi absti- nence, sobriety, humility and devotion, as CW^stianity requires, should not only be more, but an hundred time» more regarded, than any, or all things else.

For our education should imitate our guardian ai^ls, surest nothing to our minds but what is wise and holy ; help us to discover and subdue every vain passion of ons hearts, and every false judgment of our minds.

And it is as sober and reasonable to eipect and r^uire all this benefit of a Christian education, as to require that physic should strengthen all that is right in our nature, and remove that which is sickly and diseased.

But alas, our modern education' is not of Ibis kind.

The first temper that we try to awaken in children, is piide ; as dangerous a passion as that of lust. We - itir Uiem up to raia tboughta of UiemselvAs, and do evei^



BEVOUT AKD HOLy LIFE. ast

Aiag we can, to puff up their miiids^ with a sense of their «wa abilities. ,^k

Whatever way of life we int^BHBm for^we apply to the lire and raoity of Ibelr miolB, ^Krezhort theai to er- ery tbi^ from corrupt motives : We stir them up to a» tion from priuciples of strife and ambition, from ^lory, enry, and a desire of distinction, Ihat tbey may exceWtb- •rs, and shine in the eyes of tbe norld.

We repeat and inculcate these motives upon them, till they ihink it a part of their duty to be proud, envious, and TaiD-glorious of their onu accomplishmeats.

And fvben we have tau^l them to scorn to be out-done by aoy, to bear no rival, to thirst after every instance of applause, to be content with nothing' bat the highest dis- tinctions ; then we begm to take comfort in them, and promise the world some mighty things from youths of auch a glorious spirit.

If children are intended for holy orders, we set before I them some eminent orator, whose 6ne preaching has made Iiim tbe admiration of the age, and earned him through all the dignities and preferments of the church.

We encourage them to have these honours m their «ye, and to eipect the reward of their studies frott- them.

~If the youth is intended for a trade, we bid him loob at all the rich men of the sume trade, and consider how ma- ny now ^re carried about in their stately coaches, who began idi^tbe same low degree as he now does. W« awaken his ambition, and endeavour to give bis mind a right turn, by oAen telhng him how very rich such and such a tradesman died.

If he is to be a lawyer, then we set great counsellors, lords, jw^es, cbaiKeUors, before his eyes. We tell him what great fees, and great applause attend fine pleadmg. We exhort him to take fire at these things, to raise a spirit of emulation in himself, and to be content with no^ thing leas than the highest honours of the long; robe.

That this is the nature of our best education, is too plain to need any proof; and I believe there are few parents, but would be glad to see these instruciions daily ^ven to their children.

And after all thi^ we complaia of the effect* of pride j



t4d A ajHCJtIS CALL TO A

we wonder to, s6e grown men acted and ^OTerned by ambition, envy, ^<Mh '*'"' " de«<re ol glory ; nol coo- sidprii^ that they JHK^II the Lme of their youth, called upon to all iReir action aiid industry upon the same prin- eiplei.

Xou teach s child to ecom to be out-done, to thirst for distinction and applause ; and is it any wonder that be continues to act all his life in the same mnnner ?

Now if a youth is e^er to be so liir a Christian as to govern bis heart by the doclriaeB of humilitv, I would fain know ai what time he is to begin it ; or if he is eTer to begin it at all, why we train him up in tempers quite •ontmry to it f

How dry and poor must the doctrine of humility sound to a youth, that has been spurred up to all his mdustij - by ambition, envy, eoiulation, and a desire of glory, and distinction 7 And if he is not to act by these pnociplea -, when he is a man, why do we call him to act by them in bis youth 1 j|

Envy is acknowledged by all people, to be the most 'Ungenerous, base and wicked passion, that can enter into the heart of man.

.^d is this a temper to be instilled, noilrisbed and w- tablished in the minds of young pegple ?

, I know it is said, that it is not envy, but emulation, ^ that is intended to be awakened in the minds of young men.

Bnt this is vBinly said. For when children are taught , to bear do riral, and to scorn to be out'done by any of 4heir age, they are plainly and directly taught to be en< Tious. For it is impossible for any one to have this scorn of being out-done, and this contention with rivals, without burning with envy against alt those that seem to excel litm, or get any dtstiaction from him. So thai what chil- dren are taught, is rank envy, and only covered with a name of a less odious sound.

Secondly, If envy is thus confessedly bad, and it be ^mly emulation that is endeavoured to be awakened io ^children, surely there ought to be great care taken, that children may know the one from the other, that they may abominate the ona as a great crime, whilst they give tJM other admission into their miade.



DEVOUT ASD HOLY LIFE.

But if this trere to be attempted, the fiiiene distinction betwist envy and emul^Wi would t it was easier to divide them into wSRb, than to them in action.

For emulation, when it is defined in its best ia nothing else but a refinement apon envy, < the most plausible part of that black and venoo sion.

And though it is easy to septu'ate them in th yet the most acute philosopher, that nnderstand «f distinguishing ever^o well, if he gives hiaw emulation, will cerlainJy find himself deep in en'

For envy is not an original temper, but th aecess.iry, and unavoidable effect of emulation, of glory.

So that he who establishes the one in the people, necessarily fixes the other there. And no other possible way of destroying envy, but bj ing emulation, ^or a desire of glory. For Uie oi rises and falls in proportion to the other.

I know it is said in defence of this metbo cation, that -ambition, and a desire of glory, an ry to excite young people to industry; und ll were to press upon them the doctrines of hun should deject their minds, and sink them int and idleness.

But these people who say this, do not cons this reason, it it has any strength, is full as stroi pressing the doctrines ef humility upon grown we should deject their minds, and sink them int and idlene9«.

For wlio docs not see that middle-aged men much tbe assistance of pride, ambition, nnd vaio iipur them up to action and industry, as chil And it is very certain, thift the precepts of hui more contrary to the designs of such men, i grievous to their minds, when they are pret them, than they are to the minds of young persi

This reason therefore that is given, why should not be trained up in the principles of Iri ity, is as good a reason why the same humili DGver be required of grown men. • 21



ta A SERIOUS CALL TO A

Tkirdlyy JjBt those people, who think that children fTould be spoiled, iMke; were not thua educated, cooud- er this.

Could thej tbinli, that if any children had been edti- Mted by our blessed Lord, or his holy apostles, that their miads would have been sunk into dulness and idle- ness ?

Or could they think, that such children would not have been trained up in the profoundest principles of a ■Irict and true humility 1 Can they say that our blessed^ Lord, who was the meekest and bumblest man that ever was on earth, was hindered by bis humility from being the greatest example of worthy and glorious kclions, that «Ter were done by man ?

Can they say that his apostles, who lived In the hum- ble spirit of their Master, did thereiore cease to be la> boriouB aod active instrumenU of doing gf od to all tha world t

A fsw such reflections as these, are suffiaent to ex- pose nil the poor pretences for an education in pride and ambition.

Paternns lived about two hundred years ago ; he Bad but one son, whom he educated himself in his owa house. As they were Bitting t<^ther m the garden, when the child was ten years old, Patemua thus began

The little time that ^ou have been in the world, mj rJiiid, you have spent wholly with me; and my dove and tenderness to you, has made you look upon me as your only firiend and benefactor, and the cause of all the com- fort and pleasure that you enjoy ; your heart, I know, would be ready to break with grief, if you thought this was the lastilay that 1 should live with ynu.

But, my child, though you now think yourself mighty happy, because you have hold of my hand, you are now in the hands, and under the care of a much greater Fa- ther and Friend than i am, whose ieve to you is Su greater than mine, and from whom you receive such bles»^ Higs as no mortal can give.

That God whom you have seen me daily worship ; -whom 1 daily call upon to bless both you and me, and $H mankind ; nhase wondrous acti are recorded in thote






BEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. S43

Scriplureg which yon constantly read !" (bat God who crealeil the heivens anil the earth ; *tho brought a 3ood upon ft)e whole world ; who BuVed !Noab in the nrk ; who was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, whom Job blessed 'and praised in the greatest afltictions ; who delivered the Isra'elites out of the hands of the Egjp- tians ; who was the protcQtor of righteous Joseph, Moses, Joshtia and holj Daniel, who sent so many prophets into the world, who sent his ^on Jesns Christ to redeem mankind: This God, whoMias done all these great thin^, who has crented so many millions of men, who lived and died before you was bom, with whom the spirits of good men that are departed this hfe, now live, whom mSnite numbers of angels noW*worship in hea- ven ; this great God who is tlic Creator 'of worlds, of angels, and men, is your loving l^ither and friend, vpur good Creator and nonrisher, from whom, and n^K^om me, you received your being ten years ago, atlbe time that I planted that tittle tender elm which yo% there sec.

I myself iim not half the' age of (his shady oak, nnder wluch wc sit ; many of our fathers have sat under its boughs, we have all of us called it ours in our tarn, though it stan^, and drops its masters, as it drops its

You see my son, this wide and lai^e firmament over our hea*^ where the sun and moon, and all the stars ap- pear in fteir turns. If you was to be carried op lo any' of these bodies at this vast distance from us, you would Btiil discover others as much above, as the stars that you see here are above the earth. Were you to go up or down, east or west, north or south, you would find tbe same neigbt without any lop, and Ae same depth without any bollom. _^

And yet, my child, so greatis Go[!,4haran these bodies added together ore but as a grain of sand in his sight. — And yet you are aff much the care of this grea^iod «nd Father of all worlds, and all ^pirils, as if he 4M%'> ^on but you, or there wfiT^o creature forhimtoTove and protect but you alonej He nombera the hairs of youp hi^ad, watches ovei'^you sleeping and walking, and has



S44 A SKRIOUS CALL TO A

freserved yoa,Tttmi a Ihoasaod dai^era, -which neidier jou oor I know any thing of.

How poor my powef is, aad faow UMe I am able to do for yon, you hare oflen seen. Your late sickness haa shewn you how little I could do for ynu in that stnte ; and the fretiuent pains of your head are plain proofs, that I hare no power to remove them.

I can hrir% you food and medicines, but hare do power to turn them into your relief and Dourishment ; it is Ood alone that can do this for y#u.

Therefore, my child, fear and worship, and love God, Tour eyes indeed caimot yet see him, but every thing yoo see, are so many mai^ of his power and presence, and he is nearer lo you, than aoy thing that yoa can see.

Take him for your Lord and Father and Friend ; look np unto h)m as the fountain and cause of all the good that you have reoeived throu^ my hands, and reference me only at the hearer and minister ofGod's good things unto you. And he that blessed mj father before I was bom, will blesa you when I am dead.

Yonr yonib and tittle mind is only yet acquainted with tny family, and therefore you think thei% is do happiness out of it.

But my child, you belong to a greater family than mine ; you are a younger member of the family of this Almighty Father of all nations, who has crcat^ infinite orders of angels, and numberless generations or men, ts be fellow-members of one and the same society in heaven.

You do well !o reverence and obey my authority, be- canse God has given ipe power over you, to biing you up in his fear, and to dt> for you, as the holy fathers re- corde4 in Scrjabire did for their children, who are now in rest and pea^ with God.

I shall in a short time die, and leave you to God, and yourself ;^Dd if God forgiveth my sins, 1 shall go to his . son JesuSVhrist, and live among iwtriarchs and profdiets, saints and martyrs, where I shall pray for you, and hope for your safe arrival at the same place.

Therefore, my child, meditate on these great tbii^s,



DEVOUT AKD HOLY LIFE.

and your soul will soon grow great aadfH^k tatia; upon them.

Let your thcrughts oAen leart these gar fields and farm?, to conlemplate upon God and consider upon angels, and spirits of good |pi light and glory.

As you have bee.a used to look to me in i tions, and hare been afraid to do atiy thing, firet knew my will ; so let it now be a rule o to look u^ to God ia all your acttoos, to do < Id his fenr, and to abstain from every thing tbi ceriling to his will.

Bear him always in your mind, teach your | reverence ^im in every place, for ihere ii where be ia not. ~ *

God keepeth a book of life, wherein all thi all men are written* your name is there, mi when you die, this book will be laid open nnd angels, and according as your acliifl^ found, you will either be received to the h those holy men who have died before you, ed away amongst wicked spirits, ihat. are in Goil any more.

Never forget ttis book, my son, for it is mast be opene*, you must see if, anil you mi by it. Strive therefore to fill it with your { that the hand-writing of God may not app you. J

God, my child, ia all lov;, and wisdom, and and every thing that he has made, and every he does, is the effect of them all. Therefoi not please God, but. ao far as you strive to w. wisdom and goodness. As all wi^m, love ar ■ ' ig"ut love, T



goodness can lead to God. a^

When you love that w^h God lo^f y tim, you join yourself to nim



what be dislikes, then you impose him, at yourself Irom him. ^Bfais ia the true and the think what God l<^R and do you love jour heart. .^V

First of all, my- tWd, worship and adore



3-16 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

of him msgnificAtly, speak of him reverently, magmfy his providence, adore his power, frequent his service, anJ pray unlo him frequently and constanlly.

Neil to this, love jour aeig^hbour, whicb is all man- kind, with such tenderness and sffectioD, ns you love ~ your»elfr Think how God loves mankind, how merci- inl he is to them, how tender he is of fhem, how carefully, lie preserves them, and (Jteastrive'to love the world as God loTes it.

God would have all men to be happy, thepefore do, you will, and desire the Ban»e. All men are great instan- ces of divine la>e, therefore let all men be instances of

'' But abovfr all^fcy son, mark this ; never do any thing through strife, or envy, or emulation, or vain glory. — Nd^r do any thing in order to exc^ other people, hut in V^B to pleaie God, aniWbecause it is his wRl, that you should 4p every thing in the best manner that you

For »f it is once a pleasure to you to excel other peo- ple, it will by degrees be a pleasure to you, to see other people not so good as yourself.

Babisli therefore every thought of satf-pride, and self^ distinction, and accustom yourself to rettice in all the escoNcncies and perfections «f your leitow-creattireB, and be as glad to see any of their good actttfts, as your

For as God is as well pleased with their goad doings as with yours, so you ought to desire, that everything- that is wise, and holy, and good, may be performed in Its high a manner by other people, as by yourself.

Lei this therefore be your only motive and spur to all good actions, honest iMustry, and business, to do eveij



thio^ iu as pe^ct and excellent a manner as you caa, for tliis only i^pon, becau^ it is pleasing to God, v ' desires y^i^ir perfection, anVwrites all your actions i:



book. When I am dead, my son, you will be master of all my e^Aite', which will^e a g^t deal more than the necessities of oni^ family requireifl^hcrefore, as you are to be charitable lo the souls of men, and wish them the tame happiness with you in heaven^ so be charitable to

\ • c,v....>Googlc



■k



DEVOUT AMD HOLT Life ' MT

tbeir bodies, sad endeavour to make 'ttiem ai ha||>y u you upoQ earth. . . -

As God bes created all thingi for the common good of all men, ao let that part of them, which is laHen to your share, be employed, as God iroold hare^K employed,



for the common good of all. - •

Do good, my soa, first of all to those that mot^deserre it, but remember torn good to all. ^The greatest sin- n'en receive daily instances of God's goodness tonrards tbem, he nourishes and preserves them, that they may repeal, and return to him ; do.you therefore imitate God, and think no one too bad to receive your reliefaod kind- ness, when you see that be wants it.

I am teachiag; you Latin and Graek, yot that you should desire to be a ^reat critic, a fine poet, or an elo- quent orator; I wwld not have your heart feel^ay of those Sbsires, for the desire of these accomplish^jnb is a vanity of the mind, and the masters of tfavn are gener- ally vain men. For the ^esire of any thing thaU| not a real^ood, lessens the application of the mind after that which is so.

But I teach you these lai^uages, that at proper times you may look into the history pf past ages and leatn the methods of Gad's providence over the world. That reading the trritings of the ancient sages, you may sec how n^om and virtue have been the pratse of great men of all ages, and fortify your miod by their wise ' sayings.

Let troth and plainness therefore be the only orna- ments of your language, and study nothing but how to 'think of alt things as ^ey deservef to choose every thing that is best, to live according to reason and ordeK, and to act in every part of your life, iiAonfonnity to the will . of God. ^

Study how to fill your £^rt full ofvl love of God, and the love of your ncigbHHr, and then be content to be DO deeper a scholar, no tiner a gentleman, thun these tempers will nake yfi||^ As true religion iifnothing cl^e but simple nature g^Bied by right reanon, so it loves and requires grea^^Bnness and simpUcily of life. — Therefore avoid aM^erdooii' shews of Snery an^yui- page^uul let youfflouse be plainly funushed witnf|d-



54t A SERlOOa CALL TO A

ente coaveoienctH. Do not consider what your estate can afford, but wbat right reaaoQ requires.

Let your dreas be sober, clean, and modest, not to set out the boButy of your person, but to declare the sobri- ety of your mind, that your QUtirard garb may resemble the invryd plainness and simplicity t>f your heart. — For it ii%ighly reasonable, that you should be one man, all of a piece, and appear outirari^ such a'j yon are in- wardly.

As to your meat and drink, in them observe the high- est rules of Cbristiao temperance and sobtieh'; consider ' your body only as the servant and niinister of your soul ; and only to nnurish it, as it may best perform an humble aad obedient service to iL

But, my SOD, observe this as a most principal thing, which I et^aJl remind you of as l^g as I live with you. <} »

Mate and jespise all human glory, for it ia nothing else bi^ human folly. It is the greatest snare and the greate^ betrayer that you. can' possibly admit into your heart.

Love humiUty in all i^ instances^ practice it in all ila parts, for it is the noblest state of the soul of man; it will set your heart ^nd afiWctions right tonaTds God, and fill yon with every temper that is tender SB affectionate towards me*.

Let every day therefore be a day of humility, conde- scend to all the weakness and ' infirmities of your fellow- creatures, covar their frailties, love their excellencies, encourage their virtues, relieve their wants, rejoice in their prosperities, coigpEiBsiimaie their distress, receive, their frjendsbipB, overlook their unktndness, forgite their malice, be a servant <^ervaa(s, and condescend to do ^ lowest offices to the lowest of mankind.

Aspire afteifpK) thing but f^ur own purity and perfeo tion, and have no ambitioi^ut to do every thiag in so reasonable and religious a iqanner, that you may be glad that God is •very where present- and segs and observes all yoHf actions. The greatesAfel of humility, is an humble behaviour towards your ^^fel^ 'n age, estate, and condition of life. Therafora be^Kful of all the mo- tiQM>4' your heart towards thes^Pnple : Let all yo^



.•



•



DEVOUT AND HOLY LI

1>ehaviour towards them be g'oreroed Haye no_ desire to put any of your nor any anger at those that would po jou. If they are proad, they are ill temper, let them therefore have yoo perhaps your meekness may proTe rf cure. But if your humility should it will howerer be the g;reatest good yourself.

Remember that there is but one mai whom you are to have perpetual cool ways ttrlying to exceed_^him, and that , The time of practising these prec* soon be over with you, the world will your bauds, or rather you will soon eeems hut the other day since I recei' structiMs from my dear father, that with you. And the God that gave and a heart to receive what my father 1 hope, give you grace to love aod i SI ructions.

Thus did Palemus educate his son.

Can any one now think that such a would weaken' and deject the minds and deprive the world of any worthy hours?

It is so far from that, that there is i ennoble and exalt the mind, and pre{ haroical esercise of all virtues. *

for who will say, that a love of Go( ing him, a love of our neighbour, a'lovi and virtue, a contemplatiou of etemit of piety, are not stronger mot~ivea to (ions, than a little uncertain popular p

Oh the other hand, then is nothi more weakens the mind, ana reduces i slavery, nothing that makes it less ma tions, or less cap abl*J|Lfol lowing reai praise and honour. J^F . For as praise anffl|t6ur are oflen f persons, where thlj''iire not due ; as moat j^raised and bonoiired, that moj



ao A sEfuotm call to i

moon, (uUoM, and vicimn tempers af the world ; m he that ncti upon the desire of praise and applause, mast pnrt With every other principle ; he must say black in white, put tntteikfor sweet, smd sweet for bitter, and do tht meanest, basest thiiws, in order to be applauded.

For in a corrupt*world, as this is, worthy actions are only to be supported. by their own worth, where, instead (ri* being praised and bvoonred, they are liiost oAeb re- proached and persecuted. ^

So that to educate children apen a motire ofemul.l- tioD, or a desire of glory, in a world where glory itself ia falne, and most commonly given wrong, is lo destroy the natural integrity and fortitude of their minds, and gire them a bias which will oftener carry them to base and mean, than great and worthy actions.



Mrwin' hoTT the melhod of e(hicatin];i{(>ui;A7e», makes it diffi- cult rot thum to enter into the spirit of ChrislUJihurailitj. How miiersblj they nre injured anii abused bj tuch an education. The spirit ofi^Detter education repTeeeoted io the character of £unM«.

THAT turn of jnind which is taught and en- couraged in tbe education of daughters, makes it ex- ceeding difficult for tham to enter into such a sense and practice of humility, as the spirit of Christianity re- quire tb.

The right education of this sex is of the utmost im- portance to human life. There i^ nothing that is more desirable for tbe common good of all the world. For though women do not carry on the trade and business of the world, yet as they are mnl^>4, and mistresses of families, that have for some tim^Mie care of the educa- tion of their children of both i»K they are entrusted with that which is of the greatest ^ps,eq'i«'nce lo hnman life, ^r this reason, good or bad women are likely to



BEVOUT AND HOL

io u mii.cb good or hnrm id the men ill tbe greatest business of lil

For as tlie health and streng bortit^s is Terj much owing to th XI9 when we were young; bo th OBf mind h not less owing to i ways of thinking, which we eag love, tenderness, authority, and ( our mothers.

As we call our first language -oi may a» justly call our first tempe; and perhaps it may be tbund raor< gunge, than to part entirely with leamt in Uie nursery.

It is therefore much to be Int whom so much depends, who hai of ouri^odiefl and our minds, at pride, but in the aiUiest and mo It

They are not indeed suffered |iroud prizes of arts and science quence, in which 1 have much sw prove our auperioi-s ; but we tun of beauty and dress, and the wl make them think of nothing else. frt«nds and relations, seem to hav tbe httte girl, bnt that she may shape, dress well, and dance to ac

Novr if onr fondoess for oar p< ty, a love of dress, be a part ol most contemptible part of it) t woman's humility, seems to reqn education.

For it must be owned, that, g< parents are aever more fond o when they see them too fond of in such a manner, ai is a great i and sobriety of the Christian life.

And what.makei tl^t-Biatter sti is this, that women an not only Htm, hut we spoil that part of tl



II, Google



oLhjjUriie fonurii most intUoces of an eminent and ezslt-



For 1 b



[ belicTe it may be affirmed, that for the most part there u a finer aeiiHe, a clearer mind, a readier ap- preheoaion, and ^ntler dispositions in that sex, than io the other.

All which tempers, if they were truly improved by proper (todies aed sohe* methods of education, would in all probability carry thvm to greater heighu of |jiety thnn are to be found amon^^t the generality of men.

For this reason I speak of this natter with so mnch openness and plainnes.*, becaa-^ it is much to be lament' ed, thai persons so naturally qualified to be great exain- pies ol' piety, should, by an erroneous education be made poor and gaudy spectacles of the greatest vanity.

The Church has formerly had <:iDment saints in that 4CX : and it may reasonably be thought, that it i» purely owing IO their poor aod vain education, that tbia honour of ibeir sei is for the mo^t part confined to formei ages.

The orruption of the world ioduiges them in gre«t vanity, and mankind seem to cooaider them in no other view, than as 80 many painted idols, that are to allure and gratify their passions ; so that if many women are KBio, light, gewgaw creatures, they have this to excuse themselves, that tbey are not only such as their educa- tion has made them, bat such as the generaUty of the world allows them lo be.

But then they should consider, that the friends to their vanity are do friends of theirs : they should consider, that they are to live for themselves, that tbey have as jrreataihaieintherationalnatureasmenhave; Ihattbey _ Imve as much reason to pretend, and as much necei^ity to aspire after the highest accomplish me ols of a Christian and solid virtue, as the gravest and wisest amongst Chris- tian philosopher.

They should consider that they are abused and injarett, and betrayed from their only perfectioa, whenever they are taught that any thing is an onameot in them, thai is not an ornament in the wisest amongst mankind. . It is generally said that vromen are naturally of little and »ain minds; but this I look ui>on to be as false and






DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. S^

unreasonable, astoaay, thatbutchera are naturally ^el; for as their cruelty is not owing to tbcir nature, ^fl to their way of life, which has chaogecl Iheir nature ; so whatever littleaess and vaoity is to be observed in the , minds of women, it is like Ihe cruelty of butchers, a tem- per that is wrought into them by that life which they are taught and accustomed to lead.

At least thus much must he said, that we cannot charge any thing upon then'' nature, . till we taie care that'it is not perverted hy their education.

And on the other hand, if it were true, that they were thns naturally vain and light, then how much more blameable is that education, which seems contrived to strengthen and increase this folly and wirakoess of their minds ? For if it were a virtue in a woman to be proud and vain in herself, we could hardly take better means to raise this passion in her, than IhoSe that are now used in their educalJon.

Matilda is a fine woman, of good breeding, great sense «nd much religion. She has three daughters that arc educated by herself. She will not trtist them w^ch any « one else, or at any school, for fear they should learn any thing ill. She stays with the dancing-master nil the time be is with them, because she will bear every thing tliat is said to them. She has heard them read the scriiilure* so often, that they can repeat great part of it without - book : And there is scarce a good book of devotion, h^t jou may dnd it in their closets.

Had Matilda lived in the first ages of Christianity, when it was practised in the fulness and plainness of its doctrines, she had in all prohabihty been one o^ its greatest saints. But as she was bom in corrupt lime?, where she wants examples of Christian perfection, and hardly ever saw a piety higher than her own ; so she has many defects, and communicates them all to her daugh- ilers.

Matilda never was meanly dressed in ber life; anil ^jf. Aothing pleases her in dress, but that which is very r:""" •(and beantiful to the eye. ___

Her daughters see her great zeal for religion, but theo""

tbey see an equal earnestness for nil soits of £nery.

t They see she is not negligent of her devotion, but then -M

2' "J



leo ^J

srv. ^



&4 A SERIOUS CALL TO A

they see her more careful to prcBerve her compIexiMi, nod to preveot those cbangee which time asd age threat-

Thej are afraid to meet her, if they have mined the Church ; but then thej are more afraid to see her, if the} are not laced ni ntraight a» the; can possibly be.

She often shews them her own picture, which was t«- ien whcD (heir father fell in love with her. She tells them, hoW distracted he was with passion at the first right of her, and that she bad Dever had so fine a com- plexioD, but for the diligeoce of her good mother, who toolc exceeding care of it.

Matilda is so intent upon all the arts of improTing their dress^ that she has some new &dcy almost every day, and leaves no ornament untried, from the richest jewel to the poorest Sower. She ii so nice and critical in her judgment, so sensible of the smallest error, that the maid is often forced to dreia and undress her daug'l^ ters three or four timet in a day, before she can be satil> Bed with it

As to the patching, she reserves that to herself; for, riie says, if they are not stuck on with Judgment, thej are rather a prejudice^ than an advantage to the face.

The children see so plainly the temper of their mother, that they even affect to be more pleased with dreas, and to be more fond of eveiy little ornament than they reaUj are, merely to gain ber favour.

They eaw their eldest sister once brought to her tean, and ber perreESenees severely reprimatded, for presmn- ing to Bay, that she thought it was be.ter to cover the neck, than to go so far naked as tbe modem dress re- quires.

She stints them in their meats, and is very Krapulow 9fwbat they eat and drmk, and tells them how many fllK shapes she has seen spoiled in ber time for want of sucli care ; if a pimple riaes in their faces, she is in a great fright, and they themselves are as afraid to see heg with it, as ■ they had committed some great sin.

Whenever they begin to look sanguine and healthful, she cells in tbe assistance of the doctor ; and if physic, or issues, will keep the complesion &om incUninj; t* c^ane or ruddy, she thinly tbeii well ejpployed.



DEVOHT AND HOLY Lira. fits

B/ this means they are poor, pale, Bjckly, iofinn crea- tures, vapoured throogh want of spirits, crying at the smallest accidents, swooning nway at any thing that frights tbem, and hardly able to bear the weight of their best cjothes.

The eldest daughter lived as long as she conld under tbis discipline, and died in the twentieth year of her age.

When the body was opened, it appeared that her t^bs had grown into her liver, and that her other entrail* were much hurt by being crushed together with her Etays, which her mother had ordered to be twitched so straight, that it often brought tears into her eyes, whilst the maid was dressing her.

net youngest daughter has run away with a gamester, a man of great beauty, who in dressing and dancing has DO superior.

Matilda says, she should die with grief at this acci- dent, but that her conscience tells her, she has contrib- uted nothing to it herself. She appeals to their closets, to their books of devotion, to testify what care she has taken to establish her cbiklren la a life of solid pie^ and devotion.'

Now thongh I do not intend to say, that no daughters are brought up in a better way than (his, fori hope there are many that are ; yet this much I beLeve may be said, that the' much greater part of them are not brought up so well, or accustomed to so much religion, as in the pres. «nt instance.

Their min<ls are turned as much to the care of their beauty and dress, and the indnlgence of vain desires, as in the present case, without having such rules of devo- tion to stand against it. So that if solid piety, humility, and a sober sense of them'telves, is much wanted in that sex, it is the plain and natural consequence ofavaiaand corrupt education.

And if they are often too ready to receive the first fopt, beans, and fine dancers, for their husbands ; it is no won- der tliey should Uke that in men, which they have beeq taught to admire in themselves. ,i^^

And if they are often seen to lose that little re^o* fh^y were taught in their youth, it is no more lo be won-



S5C jl serious oau. to a

dered at, than to see a little floner choked and mieft

among rank we fids.

For pcrsoaal pride,>and affectation, a delight io beauty and fonJiicis of fioerj, are tempera that must either kilt all religion in the soul, or be Jhetnselvea killed by it; they can no more thrive together, than health and sick- ness.

Some people who judge hastily, will perhaps here ■ay, that 1 am exercisiog too great a seventy against the ■ex.

But more reasonable poisons will easily observe, that I entirely spare the sex, aud only arraign their education ; that 1 not only spare them, but plead their interest, as- sert their honour, set forth their perfections, commend their natural tempers, and only condemn that education, which is so injurious to their interests, so debases their honour, and deprives them of the benefit of their excel- lent natures and tempers.

Their educatioD, 1 profess, I cannot spare ; but the only reason is because it is their greatest enemj-, because it deprives the world of so many blessings, and the church of so many saints, as might reasonably be expected from persoosj^so formed by their natural tempers to all good- ness, and tenderness, and so fitted by the cle urn ess and brightnoBs of their minds, to contemplate, love and ad- mire every thing that is holy, virtuous and divine.''^.

Ifit should here he said, that 1 even chnro^e too, high upon their education, and (hat (bey are not so much hurt ky it as 1 imagine ;

It may be answered, that though 1 do not pretend to state the exact degree of mischiet (hat is done by i(, j-et its plain and nafural (endericv to do harm, is sufficient to justify the most absolute condemnation of it.

ftutif any one would know, how generally women are turt by this education ; if he imagines there may be b6 personal pride, or vain fondness of themselves, in those who are patched and dressed out with so much glitter of art and ornament.

Let him only pake the following experiment where- ever be pleases.

Let him only acquaint any such woman with his opia? Ion of her; I do not mean tbat h« should tell her to



DEVOUT ANB HOLY UFE. 9(fB:~

her face, 9r 4o >t in any rude public manner ; but lei him contrive the most civil, secret, friendly way that he can thinfc of only to let her know hia opinion, that he thinki she 19 neither handsome, nor dresses well, nor Iwcomei her iinerj ; and I dare say, be will find there are but rery few Gae dressed womea, who will like htm never the worse for bis bare opinion, though known to none but Ihemselres ; and that be will not be long without seeing the effects of her resentment.

But if such an experiment would shew him that there are but few such women that could bear with his friend- ship, after they knew he had such an opinion of them, surely it is time to complain of, and accuse that educa- tion, whfl||tti. gene rally corrupts their hearts.

Ftu-Hmugti ilfis hard to judge of the hearts of people, yet whtcft tiiej'^clare their resentment, and uoeaainesf at any thing, ' fttreijhey pass the judgment upon them- geWes. If a woinan cannot for^ve a man who thinks th« has no beauty, tot any ornament from her' dress, there she iafalltblj discovers the state of her own heart, and ui condemned by hec own, and not anotbe c's judgment

For we never are angry at others, but when their opin- ions of us are contrary to Uiat which we have of ourselves.

A man'tbat makes no pretence to scholarship, is never aDgry at those who do not take bim to be a scholar : sa if a noptan had no opinion of her own person and dress, she would never be angry at those, who are of th^ same opinion with hersel£

So that the general bad effects of this education are too much known to admit of any reasonable doubt

But how possible it is to bring up daughters in a more excellent way, let the following character declare.

Eusebia is a pious widow, welt born, and well bred^anj has a good estate for iive daughters, whom »he bringBup as one entrusted by God, to fli five virgins for (be king- dom of heaven. Her family has the same regulation a* s religious house, and all its orders tend to the support of B constant regular devotion.

She, her daughter, and her maids, meet together at all the hours of prayer in the day, and chant psalms and Other disvotioas, and spend the real of their tinw in eucip,



9^ ■ A SERIOUS CALL TO A

good works, and innocent di^erairas, as render Uicm fit t« return to their psalms and prayers.

"She loTes them as her spiritual children, and they rev- ercnce her as their spiritual mother, with an affection far abo»e that of the fondest friends.

She has divided part of her estate amongst <them, that erery one may be charitable out of their own stock, and each of them take it in their turns to provide for the poor and sick of the parish.

Eusebia brings them np to all kinds of labour that are proper for women, as sewing, knitting, spinning, and all other parts of housewifery ; not for their amuaemeot, but that they may be serviceable to themselves and others, aod be saved from those temptations which atteMl^tdI« life- She tells them, she had rather see th^dK|«aa^$»4» the necessity of maintaining themselves bwBeir owB work, thitn to have riches to eicuse tbg p i c-W bB'A'om labror. For though, says she, jou may b« able ^ -assistttbe poor without your labour, yet by your Rlbour^oii will be able to assist them more. * "•'

If Eusebia has lived as free from sin a9 it is posBible foi human nature, it is t>ccause she is always watching and guarding against all instances of pride. And if her tir- . lues are stronger and higher than other people's, it is be- cause they are all founded in a deep humility.

My children, says she, when your father died, 1 was much pitied by my friends, as having alt the care of a /amity, and-the management of an estate fallen npon me.

But my own grief was founded upAn another principle ; I was grieved to see myself deprived of so faithful a friend,- and that such qn eminent example of Christian virtues, should be taken from the eyes of his children before the; were of an age to love and follow it. .

^it as to worldly cares, which my friends thoi^ht to heavy upon me, they arc mostofthemof our own makings and fall away as soon as we know ourselves.

If a person in a dream is disturbed with strange appear- ances, bis trouble is over as soon as he is awake, uid sees that it was the foDy of a dream.

Now when a right knowledge of ourselves enters into •or minds, it uuikes as great a change in all our thoughts



PEVOUT AND HOLT UfE. , ^^

AaA apprehensiiKis, as whea we awake firom the wander- ing of a dream.

We acknowledge a maa to be mad or melkncboly, who fancies himself to be glass, and so is afraid of stirrii^; or taking himself to be wax, dare not let the son shine upon him.

But, my children, there are things in the wsrld which paas for wisdom, pohteness, grandeur, happiness, and fine breeding, which shew as great ignorance of ourselves, 3n4 might a^ justly pass for tborongh madoess, as wheo a man fancies himself to be glass, or ice

A woman who dares not appear in (he world without gne clothes^ who thinks it a happiness to hare a face fine- ly coloured, to have a skin delicately fair, who had rather die thaa be reduced to poverty, and be forced to work for a poor maintenance, ia as ignitfant of herself to the full, as he who fancies himselflo be glass.

For this reason, all my discourse with yon has been to acquaint you with yourselves, and to ac«ustom yon (» such books and devotions, as may best imtmct you ia this greatest of all knowledge.

You would think it hard, not to know the family int* which you mas bom, what ancestors you were descended from, and what estate was to come to you. But, my children, you may know all this with eiaclness, and yet be as ignorant of yourselves, as he wh» takes himself to

For though you were all of yoti bom of my body, and bear your father's name, yet you are all of you pnre spirits. I do not mean that you have not bodies that want meat and drink, and sleep, and clothing, but that all Hbat deserves to be called you, is nothing else hut spirit. A being spiritual and rational in its nature, that is as contrary to all Heshly or corporeal beings, as l|fe ji contrary to death ; that is made in the image of Cod, to live forever, never to cease any more, but to enjoy life, and reason, and knowledge, and happiness in the presence of God, and the society of angels, and glorious spirits, to ■ all etemi^.

Every thing thirt you call yours, besides this spirit, is but like your clothing ; something that is not only to be <Kd for a while) and then to eud^ and die^ and wear



Mft A SERIOUS CALL TO A

awayi and to signify no more to you,, than the cloUiing and bodies of other people^

But, my childr«B, yoa are not only in this maaoer Bpirits, but you are fallen spirits, that began your life in a state of corruption aqd disorder, full of tempers and pa-iiioa^, that blind and darken the reason of your mind and iEicltne you to that which is hurtful.

Vour bodies are nut only poor and perishing like your clothes, but they are like infected clothes, that fill yon vritb all duensea and distempers, which oppress the soul with sickly appetites and vain cravings.

So that all of us are like two beings, that have, as it were, two hearts within us ; with the one we see, and taste, and admire Teason, purity and holiness-* with the other we incline to pnde, and vanity, and seQcual de- lights.

This internal war we always feel within ns more or less ; and if you would know the one thing necessary to all the world, tt is this ; to preserve and perfect all that is rational, holy and divine in our nature, and to utortify, remove, and destroy all that vanity, pride, and aensoality, which springs frotn the corruption of our state.

Could you think, my children, whf n you look at the world, and see what customs, and fashioos, and pleasoreti, and troubles, and projects, and tempers, employ (he hearts and time of mankind, that things were thus, as I have told you !

But do not you be affected at these- tbif^is, the world h in a great dream, and but fe# |>eop^ are awake

We fuicy that we lall into darkness, when we die ; but, tlas I we are most of us in the dark till then; and 'the eyes of oursouls only then begin to see, when our bodily ejM^re cloung.

You see then your state, my children ; you are to hon- «ar, improve, and perfect the spirit that is within you, you are to prepare it for ihe kingdom of heaven, to nour- ish it with tlie love of God, and of virtue, to adorn it with good works, and to make it: as holy and heavenly as you can. You are to preserve it from the errors and Tdities of the woiM; to save it Irom the cormptions tf



.■Google



DEV:0UT AND HOLT LIFEt ^J

Ihe body from thoM false delights, and seosual tempen, which the bodjr tempts it' with.

You are to nourish your spirits with pious readings,

"and holy meditations, wilh patchings, fastings, ani

prayers, that you may taste, and relish, '■and desire

that eternal state, which is to begin when tiis life

As to your bodies, you are to consider them as poor, perishing things, that are sickly and corrupt at present, and will sooD drop into coaimon dust. You are to watch •ver them as enemies, that are iUways trying lo tempt and belray you, add so never follow their advice and counsel ; you are to consider them as the place and habK tauA of your souls, and so keep them pure; and clean, and decent; you are to consider them as the servants and instruments of action, and so gire them food, and rest, and raiment, that they may be slrong and healthful to do the duties of a charitable, useful, pious life.

Whilst you live thus, you live like yourselves ; and whenever you have less regard (o your souls, or more re- gard to your bodies, than this comes to ; whenever you are more intent upon adorning your persons, than upon perfecting of your souls, you are much more beside your- selves, than he, that hud rather have a laced coat, than an healthful body.

For this reason, my children, I have tav^ht you no- thing that was dangerous for yon to learn : i have kept you from every thing that might betray you into wet- ness and folly ; or make you thiqk any thing fine, but a fine mind ; any thing happy, but the favour of God ; or any thing desirable, but to do all the good you possibly ...

Instead of the vain, unmodest entectainment of plays and operas, I have taught joa to delight in visiting the sick and poor. What music, and dancing, and diversions' are to many in the world, that prayers and devotions, and psalms are to you. Your hands have not been employed in plaiting the hair, and adorning your persons ; but in making clothes for the naked. You have not wasted your fortunes upon yourselves, but have added your labour to tbem, to do more good to other people.

Instead of forced shapes, patcbe4 faces, geDteelains,



«a A 3EIIIOU9 CALI, TO A

nnd affected motiooa, I hare taj^kt foa to conceal your bodies with modest gameq^^ ^ad let the world have nothing to view of you, bifl^^ie plainness and sincerity, and humility of all jourbeharioor. 1

You knofV, my children, the high perfection, and the great rewards of virginity ; you know how it frees from worldly cares and troubtps, and furnishes means and op- portunities of higher adrancemeut in a divine life ; there- fore love, and esteem, and honour vii^iaity ; bless God for all that glorious company of holy virgins, that from the beginning of CbristianiEy, have, in the several ages of.thc church, renounced the cares and pleasures of'ma- trimony, to be perpetual examples of solitude, conten^la* tioQ and prayer- ful as ereiy one hai their proper gJA from Ood, as I / loolc upon you all to be so many great blessings of a mar- ried state ; so 1 leave it to your choice, either to do as I have done, or ^o aspire afler higher degrees of perfectitm ' in a vii;gin state of life.

I desire nothing, I pre«^ nothing upon you, but to toake the most of human hie, and to aspi^ ailer perfection m whatever state of life you choose.

Never therefore consider yourselves as persons that are to be seen, admired, and courted by men ; but as poor sinners, that are to save yourselves from the vani' ties and follies of a miserable world, by humility, devo- tion and self-denial. Learn to live for your own sakes, and the service of God ; and let nolbing in the world be of any value with you, but that whiefa you can turn into » service to God, and a means of your future happi- ness.

Consider often how powerfully you are called to a Tlrtuous' life, and what great and glorious things God has done for you, to make you in love with every thing that can promote his glory.

Think upon the vanity and shortness of human Ufe, and let death and eternity be oflen in your minds '. for these thoughts will strengthen and exalt your minds, make you wise and judicious, and truly sensible of the Uttleness of homan things.

Think of the happiness of prophets and apostles, i^U aed martyrs, wbo tfe pow rejoicing iQ ttK prev



DEVOUT AND HOLV tOT. 5fl3

e&ce of God, and see themselres possesson of etemal glory. ADd then think how desirable a thing it is, to watch and pray, and do good as (hey did, that when sou 0, die jou may have ytfur lot amongst them.

Whether married therefore or unmarried, consider yourselves as mothers and sisters, as friends and retations to all that want your assistance i 'and never allow your- selves to be idle, whilst others »re in want of aoy thing ttat your hands can make for them.

This Deeful, charitable, humble employment of your* Selves, is what I recommend to you witli great eameet- ness, as being a substantial part of a wise and pious hfe. And besides the good you wilt thereby do to other peo pie, every virtue of yoUr »wn heart will be very much' improved by it.

For next to readin|^ meditation and prayer, there ii nothing that so secures our hearts from foolish passions, Botbing that preserves so holy and wise a Irame of mind) es some usef)il, humble employment of ourselves.

Never therefore consider your labour as an ainoS«> oient, that is to gt^t nd of your time, and so may be at trifling as you please; but consider it as something that, iato be servicfahie to vourselves and others, that is to ■erve some sober ends of life, to save and redeem your time, and makt^ it turn to your account, nfaen the workw 9f all people shall be tried by fire.

When you was little, I left you to little amnsemenls^ to please yourselves in any things that were fixe from barm ; but as y«u are now grown up to a knowledge of God, and yourselves; as your minds are now acquainted with the worth and. value of virlue, and exalted with the great doctrines of religion, you are now to do nothing at cfaililren, but despise every thing that is poor, or vain, and impertinent ; you are now to make the labours of your hands suitable to the piety of your hearts, and em- ploy yourselves for the same ends, and with the same flpirit, as you watch and pray.

For if there is any good to be done by your labour, if you can possibly employ yourselves usefully to other people, bow lilly ii it, how contrary to the wisdoDi of



...MuGooglc



.S«4 A SEBIOtJS CjLLL TO A

seligioD t<i tnaVe that a mere amiuemcDt, which miglit ',as easily b« made ao exercise of tbe g^reatest chant; ?

What would jou think of the wisdom of htm, that dould employ hk time ia distilling of waters, and making liquora which nobody could use, merelj to amuse himi>eilr with the Farietj of their colour and clearness, wheo, wf^' Jess labour and expense, he might satisfj the naats of those who have nothbf to drink.

Ycl he would be as wisely employed, as those that are Amusing themseUes with such tedious works as Ihey nei- ther need, nor hardly know how to use when they are finished ; when witli less labour and expense tbey might be doing as much good, as be that is clothing tbe naked or visiting the sick.

/Be glad therefore to know the wants of the poorest people, and let your hands he employed in making such mean and ordinary things for tifem, as their necessities require. By thus making your lalntur a gift and service to the poor, your ordinary work will be changed inio a holy service, and made as acceptable to God, as your de vol tons.

And as chanty is tbe greatest of all virtues, as it alwajv ■was the chief temper of the greatest saints ; so nolhii^ can make your own charity more amiable in the sight of God, than this method of adding your labour to it.

The humility abo of this employment will be as bene- £ctal to you, as the charity of it. It will keep you from all »ain and proud thoughts of your own state and distinctloD in life, and from treating Ihe poor as creatures of a different species. By accustoming yourselves to thi» labour and service to the poor, as Ihe representati'ves of Jesus Christ, you will soon 6nd your heart softened into tbe greatest meekness and lowliness towards lliem. You will reverence their estate and condition, think it an honour to serve them, and never be so pleased with joui^ self, as when you are most humbly employed in their service.

This will make you true disciples of your meek Lord .qnd H^i^ter, who come into the -morld not to be ministered iufto, httlt minuter; and though he was Lord of all; ni



mGooglc



DEVOUT AUn HOLT LIFE.'

■among the crealbres i>f his own making:, yet «

them, oj one that servUh. ^

Christianity has then had its most glorions effects up^n «your he»it<i, when it has thus changed your spirit, Pe- iaoved alt the pride of life from you, and made you de- hght in humbling yourselves benenth the lowest of all your fellow-creatures.

Live therefore, my children, as you have begun j'our liveji in humble labour for the good of others ; and let ceremonions visits, and vain acquaintances, have as little ofyoiir time as you po^^'sibly can. Contract no foolish friend-iliLpsj or vain foniin^-ss for particular persons ; but love them most, thnt most turn your Jove towards God, and vour compassion towards all the world.

But above all, avoid the conversation of tine-bred fo<p» and beaux, and hAte nothing more than the idle discourse, the flnllory and compliments of that sort of men; for they are the shame of their own sex, and ought to be the abhorrence of your,'. .

When you go abroad, let hnmiHty, modesty and a de- cent carriage, he all the slate that you f.ike upon yon ; and let temlerness, comp'tsKion, and good nature, be all the fine breeding that you shew in any place.

If evil speaking, scandal, or backbitiug, be the coiv vernation where you hikppen to be, keep your heart and your ton;^ue tojour'eir; be as much ^neved, as if you was amongst cursing and swearing, and retire aS soon aa you can.

Though you intend to many, yet let the tune never come till you find a man thai has those perlections, which you h:ive been labouring after yourselves ; who i« likely to be a friend to all your virtues, and wilb wliotn it Is better to live, than to want the benefit of his exBm-

Love poTertjj and reverence poor people ; as for ma* ny reiisons, so particularly for this ; because our blessed- ^viour was one of the number, and becKuse yon may make them all so many friends and advocates with Goil> for you,

■ Visit and converse with them frequently; you wiU iSflen tiad simplicity, iuDoceacc;, patieac^ fortilnde, •nd'



iiyGooglc



9M X SESaOVS CALL TO A

great'pietywnoDggt (bem; and where the; are aot so, TDur good example may amend them.

.Rejoice at every opportQaity of doii^ an bmnble actioD, apil eierciaiDg the meeknesa of your miaifa ; whether it be, as the scripture expresses it, ia wash- ing the eainU^ feet, that is, in naitmg upon, and aerv- ' ing tho»e that are below yoa ; or in beariiig with the haughtiness and ill manuers of those that are. your »quRU, or above yon. For there is nothii^ better than humility ; it is the fruitful soil of all virtues ; and every -thing that is kind and good, natuTally grona from it

Therefore, my children, pray for, and practise humil- ity, and reject every thing in dress, or carriage, or coo- Tenation, that has any appearance of pride.

Strive to do every thing that is praiseworthy, but do nothing in ordej to be praised ; nor think of any reward for ail yonr labours of love and virtue, till Christ cometh with all his holy angels.

And above all, aty children, have a care of vain and proud thoughts of your own virtues. For assoonas ever ^ople live different from the common way of the world,' and despise its vanities, the devil represents to their minds the heights of their own perfection; and is content they should eicel in good works, provided that he can but make them proud of them.

Therefore watch over your virtues with a jealous eye, and reject eveiy vain thought, as you would reject the most wicked imaginations ; and think what a loss it would be to yon, to have the fruit of all your good works devoured by the vanity of yooi owti minds.

Never therefore, allow yourselves to despise those who Jo not follow your rules of life ; but foree your hearts t« love them, and pray to God for them; and let bvmility be always .wtuspermg it into yonr ears, that yon yourselves will fell from those rules to-morrow, tfGiM should leave you to your own strength and wis- fcm.

When therefore you have spent days and weeks weU, io not suffer yonr hearts to contemplate any thing as yoar own, bat give all t^e glory to the goodnen of



ii,.=.jnGoog[e



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. 38?

Ood, who has cartied yon throug'h such* rules of'holjr living, as you were not able to observe by your own stren^h; and take care to begin the next day, not ae proQcieala in virtue, that can do great matters, but as poor beginners, that want the daily assistance of God to eave you from the grossest sins.

Your dear father was an humble, watchful, piotts^ wise man. *WhiUt his sickness would suffer hip) to talk with me, his diacoarse was chiefly about your education. He knew the benefits of hamilitj, he saw the ruins which pride made in our sex ; and tlierefore he conjured me with the tenderest expressions, to rentiuoce the fashiona- ble way of edncdting daughters in pride and softness, in the care of their beauty and dress; and to brio^ you all up in the plunest, simplest instances of an humble, holy, and industrious life.

He taught me an admirable rale of humility,' which he practised all the days of his Fife; which was this ; to let no mprningf pass, without tMnking upon some frailty and infirmity of our own, that may pat us to confusion, make us blush inwardly, and entertain a mean opinion of ourselves.

Think, therefore, my children, that the soul ofyoup good lather, who is now with God, speaks to you through my mouth; and let the double desire of your father, who is gone, and I, who am with you, prevail upon you to love God, to study your own perfection, to practise humility, and with innocent labour and chari^, to do all the good tbat you can to all your fellow-creatures, till God calb you to another life. . Thus did the pious widow educate her daughters.

The spirit of this education speaks so plainly for itself^ that, I hope, I need say nothing in its justification. If We could see it in life, as well as read of it in boo)u, the world would soon Snd the happy effects of it

A daughter thus educated, would be a blessing to any ' family that she came into; a fit companion for a wise man, and make him happy in tlie government of his fam'> ily, and the education of his children.

And she that either was not inclined, or could not diir pose of herself well in marriage, would know bow to hv* to great m^ excellent ends jn a state of virginity.



9sg A simioua call to a

A TCry ordinary knowledge of the BpiritftfChmfianity, «eeiiis to be enough to coarince us, that no education, can be of true advanlage to young iTomen, bnt that wbich tnins them up in humble industry, in great plain- ncR§ of life, in exact modesty of drew, manners, anil car' riage, and in strict devotion. For what ahnuld a Christian woman be but a plain, unaffected, modest, bumble, crea* ture, averse to e»ery thing in her drew and cjrtriage, that can draw the eyes of beholders, or gratify the pa9> ■ions of lewd and amorous persoait

How great a stranger mnst he "be to the GoApel, wh» does not know that it requires this to be the spirit of a pioos woman?

Our blessed Saviour sailh, Wluaoever lookeih upon a leomart to latt after her, hath already committed aduittry 'sith her in hit heart. Si. Matt. r. 28.

Ne^d an educniion wbich turns women's minds to the arts and omamentti of dress and beanly, be more strongly condemned, (hen by tHtse words 7 For «ure)y, if the aye is so easily and dangerously betrayed, every art and ornament is sufficiently condemned, and naturally tends to betray it.

And how can a woman of piety more justly abhor and avoid any thing, than that which makes her person more a snare and temptation to other people? If lust and wanton eyes are the death of the soul, can any women think themselves ' innocent, who with naked breasts, patched faces, and every ornament of dress, invite the eye lo offend ?

And as tliore is no pretence for innocence In nuch a behaviour, so neither can they tell how to set any bounifc to their guilt. For as they can never know how much, or how often they have occasioned sin in other people, so they can never know how much guilt will be placed to their own ttccounl.

Thisj one would think, fhouiti sufficiently deter every pious woman from every thing that might render her the. occasion of loose passions in other people.

St. Paul, speaking of^a thing entirely innocent, reasona flf^er tbismnnner: Bvltoke heed, lest by any means this hberiy of yovrs become a stvmbling-bhck lo those that are weak. — -—And through th^ knowledge thy Vieak brother



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. set -

fen*h,for ■aAom Chriat died. But wktti yt nn WMgaiiut the brethrea, and vtound thtir wuxk conscience, ye ma a^aitut Christ. JPherefare^ if meat make nuf brother to ofi- fend, I wiU eat no Jieik white the world atandeth, leat I mote my brother to offend. 1 Cor. viu. 9 — 13.

Now if this is the spirit of Chris tiaoit;,- if it re<[iiire» us (o abatdn from thtQgs^iia lawful, innoceDt, and use- ful, when, there is any danger of betraying oar weajc brethren into an error thereby, surely it caunot be reck- oned, too nice or needless a point of conscience, for wo- mea to aroid such thiags, as are neither innocentaor uae- ful, but naturally tend to corrupt their own hearts, mi . raise ill passioas in other people.

purely erery woman of Christian piety ought to aaj, in the. spirit of the apostle, if patching and paint, or anjr yaid adoruiag of my person, be a natural means of mak* ing weak, unwary eyes to offend, I will renounce al) these arts as long as I lire, lest I should m^e my fellow- oreatures to offend.

< I shall DOW leave this subject of humility ; having said enough, as I hope, to recommend the necessity of making it the constant, chief subject of your darotion at this hour of prayer.

I have considered the nature and necessity of humility, and its great importance to a retig'iaus life. 1 have shewn you how laaay difficulties are formed against it from our natural tempers, the spirit of the world, and the common education of hoth sexes.

These considerations will, I hope, instruct you how td form your prayers for if to the best advantage ; aud teach jou the necessity of letting do day pass, without a serious, earnest application to God, for the whole spirit of humili- ty. Fervently beseecbiug him to fill every part of your soul with it, to make it the ruling, constant habit of your mind, that f ou may not only feel it, but feel all your other tempers arising from it ; that you may have no thoaghls, no desires, no designs, but such as are tjie true fruits of an humble, meek, and lowly heart.

That you may always appear poor, and little, and mean io your own eyes,. and fully content tint others should have the same opinion of you.

That the whole course of- your life, your espeiue,/oitr



aw A sEaious call to a

bouse, yoar drcM, your manner of eating;, drinkiag, cob- reraing, and doing every thing, may be so many conthi- uat proofs of the true unfeigaed faumilily of your heart ; that yotr may look for nothing, claim nothing, resent nothit^ ; thafyou may go through all the actions and ac- cidents of life calmly and qnietiy, as in the presence of God, looking wholly onto him, actii^ wholly for him ; neither seeking rain applause, nor resenting neglects, or affronts, but doing and receiving every thing in the meek and lowly spirit of our Lord and Saviour Jesna Cbrtst.



CHAP. XX.

■ Recommenfling demotion at twelve o'clock, called in ScriptUra the Sixth /iMir of the day. The frequencj of devotion cquatly desirable bj all ivdcri of people. Uniuertal Uve is here reeom< oieDded to be the subject of prajer at thin hour. Of intercef- lion, as an act of univervd loie.

IT will perhaps be thought by some people, that these hours of prayer come too thick; that they can only be observed by people of great leiBure, and ought not to be pressed upon the generalily of men, who have the cares of families, trades and employments; nor upon the gentry, whose state and figure in the world cannot ad- mit of this frequency of devotion. And that it is only fit ./or monasteries and nunneries, or such people as have no more to do Id the world than they have.

To this it is answered,

First, That this method of devotion is not pressed upon any sort of people, as absolutely necessary, but recom- mended to all people, ae the best, the happiest, and moet perfect way of life.

And if a great and exemplary devotion is as' much the greatest happiness and perfection of a merchant, asoldier or ft man of quality, as it is the greatest happiness, and perfection of the most retired contemplaiire life, then it is as proper to recommend it without any ahal#(nents to One order of men as to another. Because happiness and ^perfection are of the same worth and value to all people.

The gentleman and tradesman may, and must spend



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. Wt

much of their time diffef rintly from the piona monk in tb« ■ cloister, or the contempialive hermit in the desert: but then, as the monk and hermit lose the ends of retirement, unless they make it all strviceahle to devotion ; so the gentleman and merchant fail of the greatest ends of a sooial life, and live to their los= in (he world, unless devo- tion he their chiefnnd governing temper.

It is certainly very honest and cre<Iitable for people to engage in trades and etoployments ; it is reasonable for gentlemen to manage w.elj their estates and families, and ■nch recreations as are proper to their state. But then every gentleman and Iradeaman loses the greatest happi- ness of his citation, is robbed of something that is greater than all employments, distinctions, and pleasures of the world, if he does not live more to piety and devotion, than to any thing else in the wortd.

Here are therefore no excuses made for men of busi- ness and fignre in the world. First, because it would be to excuse them from that which is the greatest end of living, and be only finding so many reasons for making Ihem leas beneficial to themaeWes, and less Serviceable to God and the world.

Secondly, -Because most men of business and figure engage too fer in worldly igjiatters ; much farther than the reasons of human life, or the necessities of the world require.

Merchants and tradesmen, for. instance, are generally fen times farther engaged in business than they need ; which is so far from being a reasonable excuse lor tlieir want of time for devotion, that it is their crime, und must be censured as a falameable instance of covetousnesa and ambition.

The gentry, and people of fignre, either give them- ■elves up to state employmenti, or to the gratifications of their passions in a life of gaiety and debauchery ; and if these things might be admitted as allowable avocationi from devotion, devotion must be reckoned a poor circum- ttance of life.

Unless gentlemen can shew that they have another God, than the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ ; another Datnre, than that which is derived from Adam ; another xeligloD) than the Christian, it is in vuu to plead their



CALL TO A

state, and tUgrn^, mnd plf.mrmt,'aa reauM for oot pr«- paring their sotils for God, bj a strict aad regular devo- tion.

For since {uely ajid derotioo are the common un- chai^able means of saving all the souls ia the world that shall be saved, there is nothing left for the gentle* nuin, the soldier, and the tradesman, but to take care Ijiat their several states be, by care and WBtcbfulneaa, bj meditation and prayer, made states of an exact and solid



■"'.7.,



It a merchant having forbore from too great business, ■ tiiat he might quietly attend on the service of God, should therefore die worth twenty, instead of fifty thousand ponods, coold any one say that he bad mistakeo his call- ing, or gone a loser ont of the world ?

IfagentleroEm should have killed fewer foxes, been less frequent at balls, gaming, and merry meetings, be- causB stated parts of his time had been given to retire- ment, to meditation and devotion, conld it be thought, that when he left the world, he would regret the loss of those hours that be bad given to the care and improve- ment of his. soul t

If a tradesman, W aspiring after Christian perfection, and retiring himself often from his business, should, in- stead of leaving liis childreti fortunes to spend in luxury and idleness, leave them to live by their own honest la- bour ; could it be said, that he had made a wrong use of the world, because be bad shewn his children, that he



Since therefore devotion b not obly the best and most desirable practice in a cloister, but the best and most ■ <lesirable practice of men, as men, and m eveiy state of life, they that desire to be excusecl firom if, because tbey are men of ^ore, and estates, and- business, are no wiser than those that should desire to be excused frem health and happiness, because they were men of figure and •states.

1 cannot see why every gentleman, merchant, or sol- dier, should not put these questions seriously to himself:

" What is the best thing for me to intend and drive at io all my actions ? How shall I do to make the moal ijf



DEVOUT AND HOLT LTFE. «»

homaa life ? What vraje sbttll 1 wMi tfast I had taken, *hen I am leaving the world !"

Now to Re thus wise, aad to mafae thns much lose of our reason, seems fo be but- a small and necessary piece of wiadoni. For how can we pretend to sense anit judgment, if we dare not serionaly comider, and answer, and govern our lives by that which such questions require •fus?

' Shatl n nobleman think his birth too high a dignity ta (iondescend to such questions a* these ? Or-a tradesman thmk hia btuiness loo great, t» lake aay caK about him- •etf?

Now here is deBired no more derotion in my one's life, than the an<<wering these few qoestiOM require.

Any devotion thitt is not to the greater advantage of faimwbo uses it, than any thing that he con do in the room of it; any devotion that does not procure an infi- nileJy greater good, than can be«:et by neglecting it, i> frerfy yielded up, here is no demand of it.

But if people will live in so much Ignorance, as never to puC these questions to themselves, but push on a bhnd. Kfe at all chances, in quest of they do not know what or why; without ever considering the worth, or value, or tendency of their actions ; without considering what God, reason and eternity, and their own happiness require of them; if is forthe hoDour of devotion that none can neglect it, but those who are thus inconsiderate, who dare Dot inquire aAer that which is the best,' and most worthy of their choice.

It is true, Claudius, yo« are a man of iigure and estate, and are to act the part of such a station of human life ; you are not called, as Elijah was, to be a prophet, or aj St. Paol, to be on apostle.

■But will you therefore not love y»urself? Will you not seek and study yonr own happiness, because you are not called to preach up the same things lo other people ?

You would think it very absurd, for a man not to raloe his own health, because he was not a physician ; or the preservation of his limbs, because he was not a hone* utter. Vet it'is more absurd for you, Claudius, to neg;-



,..a>Googl.-



>214 A BEMOOS CALL TO A '

lect the improvemant ofyoar «onl in piely, becanse j'oo are not an apostle, or a bishop.

CooudcF this text of ecripture : If yt live after the Jlah, ye ihaU die ; but if through the tpirit ye do morfify the deeds of the body, ye tkail free, for <u matu/ as are ted by the tpi- rit ofGtk, they are the iiMi of God. Rom. TJii. 13. 14. Doyoa think (hat this scripture does noteqaalljTehte to all onnkindl Can you fiod any exception here for men of figare and estate T Is not a spiritual and deroat life here made the common condition, on which all men are to become sons of God I will yoaleaye boars of prayer, and rales of devotion, to particular states of life, when nothii^ but the same spirit- of devotion can save you, or any man, from eternal death f

Consider again tbis text : For we mart all appear be- fore the judgment teat of Chriit, that aiery oni mat) reente the ' Auigt dime m hie bedy, acarrding to that ht hath done, ■whether it be good or bad. 2 Cor. v. 10. Now if your estate would excuse yon from appeariog before ifis judg^ ment seat; if your figure conld protect you from re- ceiving according to your works, there would be some pretence for yo«r leaving devotion to other people. But if yon who are now thus dislingui^ed,- mu^t then appear naked amoi^t common souU, without any other distinction from others, but such as your* Tirtues or sins give you : does it not as ii)nch concern yoo, as any prophet, or apostle, to make the best proriwon for th« best rewards at that great day ?

Again, consider this great doctriee oC the ^tostle : for none of la, that is, of us Christians, lioetk tohimself: For Tvheiher wt live, roe (we unto the Lord ; and wfcetiwr me die, we dU vttto the Lord. For to thU end Ckriet both died, and role, and revived, that he migit be Lord both of the dead and'the iidng.

Now are you, Claudius, excepted out of the doctrine of this teit? Will you, because of your condition, leave it to aay particular sort of people, to live and die nnto Christ ? If, 80, you must leave it to them, to be redeem- ed by the death and returrection of Christ For it is the express doctrine of the text, that for this end Christ died and rose again, that none of us shoald live to him- •elf. itia not that priests, or apoMhi^ mrnks, or he».



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. 27C

mitssbould Uve no loader (o themselTes ; but that none •f oa, thatis,no ChriHttan, of Trhat state Boever, should live unto himself.

If, therefore, there be any iastances of piety, any mles of devotion, which you cm neglect and-yel ii^e as truly UBto Christ, as if you observed them, this text calls you to DO such devotion. But if you forsake such devotion, %e you yourself kaow is expected from some particular sorts of pei^le ; such derolion as you know becomes people that li^e wholly unto Christ, that aspire aftet greM piety ; if jon neglect such devotion for any world- ly consideratioii, that you may Uve more to your own temper and tast«, more to the fashioDs and ways of the World, you forsake the terms on which all Christians.are . to receive the benefit of Christ's death and resurrec- tion.

Observe farther, how the same doctrine is taught by St Peter; Aa ke ■which hath ealUd you ii heiy, to bt ye hidg iit all tnmmer of eonvenation. 1 Pet. i. 15.

If, therefore, Claudius, you are one of those who are here<called, you see what it is that vou are called to< It is not to have so much religion as^iits witb your tem- per,- your business, or your pleasures ; it is not to a par- ticular sort of piety, that may be sufficient for gentlemeu of figure and estates; but it is first, to be holy, as he who hath called you is holy ; secondly, it is to be thus holy in all uiaDner of conversation ; that is, to carry this ■pirit and degree of holin«sa mlo every part, and through the whole form of your life.

And the reason the apostle immediately gives, why this spirit of holiness ^ust be the common spirit of Christians, as' such, is very atfecting, and such as equally calls upon aU sorts of Christians. Forasmuch as ye ibiow, says he, that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, Ut Hlver and gold, from your vain coniier*atioii— 6«( with the preeiout biood of Christ, &c.

As if he had said. Forasmuch as ye. know yewrere made 'capable of this state of bolibess, entered into a society with Christ, asd made ^/0n of his glory, not by any human means, hut by such a mysterious instance of . love, as infinitely exceeds every thing that can be theught of in the. worid; WM Ood baa ledeemed you lofaw-



f



271 ' X flOtlOUS CALL TO A-

solf, and your owa happinew, at so great a price, boM' base and shamefol must it be, if yon do not heocefortfa devote yourselves wholly to the glory of God^jand be^ come holy, as he who hath calle<l you is holy ?

If, therefore, Clawlias, yea consider yoifr figure and estate ; or if, in the wwds of the text, you Consider your gold and silver, and the 'corruptible Ibin^ of ihii life, as any reason vfay you may l|ve, to your own hu- mour and fancy, why you may aegJect a hfc of strict piety and gredl devolioo; if you think. itny Ih.og m Ibe world can be an eiciue for your not loutaling the holi- ness of Clinst in the whole course and Ibiw of yoar life, you may inake yourself as guilty, as if you should neg- lect the bolinese of Christiuatty lor the sake ot picki^ straws.

For the' greatness of (his new ttate of life to which we are called in Christ Jesus, (o be forever as tiie angels of, God in heaven, and the greatness of the price by which we are made capable of this Mate of glory, has turned every thing that, is worldly, temporal, and corruptible into an equal littleness ; and made it as great baseness and Jolly, as great Aontempt of the blood of Christ, to neglect any degrees of holintiss, because you are a maa ofsoiDe estate and quality, as it woald be to neglect it, hecause you had.a fancy to pick straws.

Again, the sane apostle s;uth, KHoe> ye not that your bodg ia thi temple of the Huly Ghost- which is wuyou, and ye art not your awn ? For ye are bought with a price ; therefort glorify God in your body, and «n your spirit, which are Cied't. I Cor. Ti. 19, 20.

How poorly therefore, Clati4ius, have you read the scripture ? how little do you know of Chiistianity, if you can yel talk of your estate and coiulitioii, as a pretence for a freer kind of life ?

Are you any more your own, than he that has db estate or dignity in the world ? Miist mean and tittle peo- pie pppserve their bodies as temples of the Holy Ghost, hy watching, fastin?, and, prayer; but may you indulge yours in idleness, in l^g^ and sensuality, because ye bnve so much rent, or such a title of distinction? How poor mid ignorant are such thoughts as these ? And yet fou mint either tbiatc thus, or elscadvowledge, that th»



T



DEt-OUT AND HOLY UFE. $^1

fcolioeis «f saints, prophets, and apoatles is tlie bolineiii that yon are to latiour after with all Ihe diligence and care that you can.

And if you leave it lo others, to live in such piety and deTOtton,'in such self-denial, humility, and lemper«Dce, as may render them able to glorify God in their body, and in their, sfiirit; you must leave it to them aha, to have the benefit of the Uood of Christ.

Afcain ; the apostle saith, You know how we axkortedf tsmjorted, and ckargtd tnery <me o/yov, thai ye Ttould walk :!t!oy(hy of God, w/iohalk caliedyoa to hU kingdom audgU/rtj^ i Thess. ii. 11.

You perhaps, ClauJhis, hare often heard these words without ever thinking how much they required of you. And yet you cannot consider them, without perceivinff to vrhftt an eminent state of holiness they caii you.

For how can the hohnese of the Cbrietian life be set ^fore you in higher terms, than when it is represented to yoo, as walking worthy of God ? Can you think of any abatemenU-of virtue, any neglects of devotion, that ^re well consistent with a life that is to he made worthy of God? Can yeu suppose that a^ man walks in this manner, but he that watches over all his steps, and considers bow every thing he does, may be done ia the ■spirit of holineaa? And yet as high as theee expressions •carry this holiness, it is here plainly made the necessary holiness of all Christians. For ike, apostle does not here «xhort his fellow apostles and saints lo this holmes^ but he commands all Christians to endeavour after it : We dmrged, sayB he, rvery one of yoa, &at ^wtmld wnifc worthy of God, wlfo 1^"'^ '="'^ S*" *" ™ Kingdom iind glory- Again ; St. Peter saith, Jf ara/ man apeak, kt htm tjieak -luithe oraclaofGod; if any ,»an miaisttr, Ut him do u at of the ability that God giveth ; that God tn all thwg» may U irforySed W Cfirijt Jena. 1 Pet iv. 1 1.

Do you not here, Claudius, plainly perceive jonr tiiah calling ? Is he that speaketh, to have such regard In his words, tb*i he appear lo speak as by the direction «f God T Is he that giveth, to take care that be w giveth, <h3t what he dispoaelh of may appear lo be a gm that



3!7» 1 ai^lOUS CALL TO k

be hath of Ood T And ii ^1 this to be done, that Qod mmy be glorified in nil things ?

Must it not then be said, has any man nobility, digratjr of state, or figure ia the world ? let him so use hix nobi- lity or figure of life, that it may appear he nses these as tbe gifU of God, for the greater setting forth of his glory. l8 there now, Claudius, any thing forced, or far-Ietcbed jn this coDcIneion ? Is it not the plain sense of the words, that every thing in life is to be made a matter of holiaess «nto God ? If so, then your estate and dignity is so far from excnung you from great pie^ and holiness of Ufe, that it lays you onder a greater necessity of bring more fo the glory of God, because yon have more of tug gifts Aat may be made serviceable to it.

For people therefore of figure, or bunneis, or dignity in tbe world, to leave great pie^ and eminent devotion to any particular orders of men, or such as tbey think bare httle else to do in tbe world, is to leave the kingdom of God to them. For it is tbe very end of ChriatiaDify to redeem all orders of meo into one holy society, that rich and poor, high and low, masters and servants, may in one and the same spirit of piety, become a cAoten gtruration, a rm/al priatkood, an haly naCwm, a peaUiar ptopU, Aat are to aktw forth tha prmiset of him, •aiha hath aJUd :Ut*m oiK of dftrkneiif into kit marntlloug light, I Feler ii. 9.

ThoB mnch beii^ said (o shew, that gr^at deyotiin and hoUaess is not to be left to any particular sort of people, but to be the common spirit of all that desire to five up to the terms of common Christianity ; I now proceed to consider the nature and necessity of univeraal love, which is here recommended to he the subject of your devotion at this hour. You are here also called to intercession, 'as tbe most proper exercise to raise and preserve that love. By intercession is meant a praying te God, and interceding with him for our fellow crea- tures. ■'

Our blessed Lord hath recommended bis love to o^ as the pattern and example of our love to one analher. * As fhetefore ke is eoatiBially making intercessioit hv



I, Google



DEVOUT AKD HOtr USE. s.n

«3 all, BO onght we to intercede and pra; for ooe an- other.

A new eommandiTient, saith he, I give unto you, t!iat yelove oneanother, at Ikrtve UmtdyoA. Bt/thUthall aUmtn £n«w timt ye are my diiciptei, if ye love one anol/icr.

The newnes» ol this precept did oot consist ia this, that men were commanded to love oae another; for this was an old precept, both of the law of Moses, and of nature. But if wag new in this respect, that it wus to imitate a neir, and till then unheard of example of love ; it was to love one another, as Christ had loveil us.

And if men are to know that we are disciples of Christ, ' bj thus loving one another according to his oetv etample of lore ; then it is certain, that if we are void of tfais love, we tnake it as plainly know a unto men, that we are none of hia disciples.

There is no principle of the heart that ia more accept- able^ to God, thao aaunivermlfervent love toallmankind, ' .Wishing and praying for their happiness ; because there is no principle of the heart that makes us more like God, who is love and goodness itself, and created all beings for their enjoyment of happiness.

The greatest idea that we can frame of God is when we conceive him to be a being of infinite love and good- ness i using an infinite wisdom and power for the common good and happiness of all his creatures.

The highest notion therefore that we can form of man is when we conceive him as like to God in this respect OS he can be ; using all his finite faculties, whether of wisdom, power, or prayers, for the common good of all his felloiv-creatures ; b^ardfc desiring they may have all the happiness they are caplRile of, ant] as many benefits and assislaaces from him, as his state and condition in the world will permit him to give them.

And on the other band, what a baseness and iniquity is there in all instances of hatred, envy, spite, and ill-will ,- if we consider, that every instance of them is so far acting in opposition to God, and intending mischief and harm to those creatures, which God favours, and protects, ^d preserves, in order to th«ir happiness? An ilt-natnred man amongst God^s creatures, is the most perverse crea- ture in the tvorld, actii^ contrary to Ihat love, by which



'»a A SERIOUS CALL TO r

Umself sabuBtt, and which Klone givM snbenteace to atE. Ihat variety ofbeii^s, that enjo; life in any part of the creation. WhaUoevtr ye mwU that nun Aoi^d do mUo you, rrc» ID do tmto them.

Now, though this is s doctrine of strict jastJce, yet it is «nly an amrersal lore that can comply with ii. Foe as lore is the meswure of our acting towaidg -onnelves, so we can n^yersct in the same manner towards other peo- yle, till we look npoa them with that lore with which w6 look upon ourselves.

As we have no degrees <^ iidte, or enry, or IH-will to oarselveB, eo we cannot be disposed towardB othertras we are towards oui^elres, till we univenally renolmce ail instances of !ipite and enry, and ill-wilt, even in the smalleit degrees.

If we had any imperfection in our eyes, that made m see any one thing wrong, for the seme reason they woald ■hew ,uB SD hundred things wrong.

So if we have any temper of our hearts, that makes as envinin or spitefbl, or ill-natured towards any one man, the same temper will make ns envious, and ^itelul, aai illHiatured towards a great many more.

If therefore we desire this divine virtae of love, we most exercise and practise our hearte in the love of all, be- came it is not Christian loye, till it is the love of all.

If a man eowld keep this whole law of love, aod yer •ffend in one point, he would be guilty of all. For as one allowed instance of injustice destroys the justice of all our other actional, so one allowed instance of envy, spite, and ill-will, renders all our other acts of benevolence, and af< Action nothing worth. jk

Acts of love Ihnt procee^ot from a principal of uni- rersal love are lint like acts of justice, that proceed from a heart not disposed to universal justice.

A love which is not univeraai, may indeed have ten- derness and affeclion, but it hath nothing of righteons^ nesB or piety in it ; it is but humour, and temper, or interest, or such a love as publicans and heathens prac-

All particular envies and spites, are as plain departures ih>m the spirit of Cbristinoity, as any particular acta of injustice, tor it is as much a law of Cbriat, to tfeat



i5>



DEVCKIT A1XD H(H.Y UTS. ggi -

ererf body U jour neighbour, ^d to love your neigh- bour as yourself, as it is a law of Christianity tq ^>siaia from theft.

Now the DobleM motive to this nniversal teodemeBa and afieclion, is foanded in this doctrine : God it love, and hi that dwtlittK in fiimy dwelieth in God.

Who, therefore, whose heart has any tendency toward Qod, would not aspire alter this divine temper, which so changes and exalts our natore into an union with him.

How should we rejoice in the esercise and practice of this love, n'hich, so often as we feel it, is so often an. a&- stirance to us, that God is in us, that we act according to his spirit, who is love itself I But we must observe that love has then only this nughty power of uniting us to Ood, when it is so pure and universal, as to imitate that love which God bearelh to all his creatuFes.

God willeth the happiness of all beings, though it is n* happiness to himself. Therefore ne must desire the hap- piness of all beings, though no happiness cometh to us from it.

God equally delighteth in the perfections of all his crea- tares, therefore we should rejoice in (hose perfections, wherever we see them, and be as glad to have other pe(^ pie perfect as ourselves.

As God forgiveth all, and giveth grace to all, so we shosM fergive all those injuries and aB'ronts i^hich we receive from others, aad do all the good that we can t* them. . God Almighty, besides his own great example of love which ought to draw all hi? creatures allter it. Has so provided for ut, and made our happiness so common to us all, that we have no occasioo to envy or hate one another.

For we'cannot stand in one another''s way, or by enjoy- ing any particular good, keep another from his full share of it. As we cannot be happy, but in the enjoyment of God, so we cannot rival, or rob one another of this haf- piness.

And as to other things, the enjoymenls and prosperi' ties of tliis hfe, they are ho little in themselves, so foreign to our happiness, and, generally speaking;, so contrary 24*



>fK A SERIOUS CALL TO A.

to that wlMchtiiey appear to be, thrt Ihey are no foTOttii- tioa for envy, or spite, or hatred.

How silly would it be to envy a nun, who was drink- my poison ont of a golden cop ? and yet who can say, that be is acting wiser than thus, when be n enrying any Instance of worldly greatneaa 7

How many saints has adversity sent to hearen T And how many poor stnneis has prosperity plunged into ey^ lasting misery ! A man seems then to be in th« most glo- rious state, when he has conquered, di^raced, and hnm- bled his enemy; though it moy be,-that same conquest has saved his adversary', and undone himself.

This man had perhaps never beeh debauched, bnt Tor his forhme and advancement ; who hW never been pioos but through his poverty and di^racci''- '

She whois envied for her beanty, may perchance owe all her misery to it ; and another may"- Wiftirever happy for having had no admirers of her pers**^*

One man succeeds in every thing, a«d so loses all ; another meets with nothing bat crosses, and disappoints ments, aad thereby gains more than all the world y

This clergyman may be undone by his beu^ ntade a bishop and that may save both himself aod others, by _ being fixed to his first poor vicarage.

How envied was Alexandlr, when conquering the world ; he built towns, set up his statues, and \e£t marks of his glory in so many kingdoms > and bow despised was the poor preacher, St. Paul, when he was beaten with rods! And yet how strangely was the world mistaken in their judgment ! How much to be envied was St. Paul I How much to be pHied wa« Alexander !

These few rejections sufliciently shew us, that the different conditions of this life have nothing in Uiem to excite oor uneasy passions, nothing that can reasonably iatermpt our love and affection to one another.

To proceed now to another motive to tius aniversa( love.

Our power of doii^ external acts of love and goodness i' often very narrow and restrained. There are, it may be, but few people t9 whom we can contribute an; woiM- ly reUeE

c4iz=.JnGooglc



DEVOUT AMD HOLT LUX itS

But thoa^ oar outward means ot domg^ftgjfme of^ ten thuB limi'ted, jet if our hearts ^e bvt^JtSl-ot love and ^oodoeie, we get as it were an infinite power ; be- CBDse God will Bttribate to m those good ^orks, Aose acts of lore and tender charities which we sincerel; de- sired, and WDokl gladly bare peribnned, bad it been is OCT power.

Yon cannot heal all the sick, relieve all the poor; yon CMtnot comfort all in distress, nor be a father to all the fatherless. Yoa cannot, it may be, debver many from their misfortnDes, or teach them to find comfort in God.

Bat if there is a lof e and tenderness in your heart that delights in these good works, and encites you to do nil that you can ; if your love has no bounds, but continn> ally wishes aad prays for the relief and happio^s of all who are in distress, you will be received by God as a benefactor to those, who have had nothing from you but your good wilt, ai^ tender afieGtit^s.

Tou cannot baild hospitals for the iDCOrable ; you can- not erect monasteries for the education of persons in holy solitude, continual prayer and mortification,- bat if you join in your heart with those who do, and thank God for Iheif pious deugns ; if yon are a friend to these great friends to mankind, and rejoice in their eminent virtues, you will be received by God as a sharer of sach good works, as though they had none of your bands, yet they had all your faearl

This consideration sorely ia sufficient (o make us look to, and watdi over onr hearts with all diligence ; to study Uie improvement of onr inward tempers, and a^ire attet every height and perfection of « lovu^, charitaUe, and tvenevolent mind.

And OD the other hand, we may hence leam die great evil and mischief of all wroi^ turns of mind, of envy, spite, hatred, and ill-will. For if the goodness of our hearts will entire us to the reward of good actions, whidi we never pertbrmed ; it is certain that tbe badness of onr hearts, our envy, ill-aalure, and hatred, will bring OS under tbe goilt of actions that we hare never commit-

M be tbat lustelh after a woman shall be reckoned



3S4 A BERIO0S CALL TO A

m adulterer, tbooglt be hu onlj committed the cria« in hb heart j so the malicious, spitefal, iU-ulured -man ' who only secretlj rejoices at evil, shall be rednmed a nnrderer, tttMch he has shed no Mood.

Since, thererore, our hearts, which are always naked, and open to the ej'es of God, gire snch aa exceediog ex- tent and increase either to our Tirtues or vices, it is our best and greatest business to govern the motiow of oar hearts^ to watch, corAct, sod improve the inward stale and'temper of our souls.

Now there is Dotbii^ that so much exalts onr lonls, as this heavenly love ; it cleanses and purifies like a holy fire, and all ill distempers fall away before it It makes room for all virtaes, and carries them to their greatest height Every thii^ that is good and holy grows out of it, and it becomes a continaal source of all holy desires, and pious practices. By love, I do not mean any natural tenitemess, nhich is more or less in people according to their constitutions j bat I mean a iargef principle of the soul, founded in reaaon and piety, wtucfa makes us tender, kind, and benevolent to all our fellow-creatitres, as crea- tures of God, and for his sake.

It is this love that loves all things in God, aa his crea- tures, aa the imngea of bia power, as the creatores of his goodness, aa parts of his family, aa members of his society, Aat becomes a holy principle of all great and good ac- tions.

The love, therefore, of oar neighbour, is only a branch of our love to God. For when we love God with all our hearts, and with all our souls, and with all our strength, we shnll necessarily love those beings that are so nearly related to God, that have every thing from him, and created by him, to be objects of his own eternal love. If 1 hate or despise any one man \a the world, I hate Bomethiog that God cannot hate, and despise that which ke loves.

And can I think that I love God wilb-all my heart, Whilat I hate that which belongs only to God, which hw no other master but him, which bears hia image, is part of hia family, and exists ^nly by the continuance of his love towarda itt It was the impossibiUty of this that



D51,z=.JnG00gltf



rffiVaUT AHD HOLT LIRE. SlU

raatfe St. John any, That ifemy mm taith, h* Upn& Ood^ aiul hateth his brotlur, he is a'liar<

These reasons suffi««Dtly shew ue, tb«t no love is holy or religious, till it becomes uaireisaL -

For if religioowequires me to love aU itenone, as God'e creatures, that beloi^ to him, that bear his imag«^ eojoy hie protectioor and make parts of hie familj and hoiuehoM ; if these are the ^e«t and neceMary reasoo* why 1 should live in lore and friencbhip with any on« man in the world, they are the same great and aecepRuy reaaoos why I should live in love and friendsldp with erery one man jn^ihe world : and consequently 1 offend agaipat alt dtesu reasons, and break through all these tiei and obligatioua, whenever I wuit love towards any one man. The sin, therefore, of hating or despising any one man,, is like the sin of hating all God's crealJODf Mid the ne- cessity of loving any one man, is the same necessity o£ loving every man in the world. ■ And though many peo- ple may appear to ns ever so sinful, odious, or extrara* gant in their conduct, we must never look upsn that as the least motive for any contempt or disregard of them, but look upon tbem with the f^aler compassion, as ber iug in the most pitiable condition that can 6e.

As it was the sins f>£ the world, that made the Son or jG-od become'a compassionate suffering advocate for eiII mankind ; so none is of the ^fit «f Christy but be wha has the utmost compassion for sinners. Nor is there any greater sig^ of your, own periection, than when you find yourself all love and compassion towards those who are very weafc and defective. And on the other hand, you have never less reason to be pleased with yourself, tbao. when you find yourself most angry and offended at the- behaviour of others. All sin is certainly to he bated aiid abhorred wherever it is ^sbut then we must set ourselves against sin, as we do against sickness and diseases, hy shewing ourselves tender and compassionate- to (he sick and diseased.

' AU other hatred of sia, which does not fill tbe heart with tbe softest, tendereat afiectione towards persons mis- erable in it, is tbe servant of sin at the same time that it ■eems to be hating it.

And there is oa temper which even good nun ougUj^



M A SfiWOUa CALL TO A

lOre caref)^ to wateh Bnd guard against than Ais, or it is a temper that lurks and hidis itself under the irerofmany virtnes, and bjr being' nnsiupected doe» le more mwchief.

A man naturally fancies, that it ia hte own exceeding iTe of virtofl that makes him not able to bear with those lat want it. And when be abhors one man, despises □other, and cannot bear the name vf a third, he aup- oses it all to be H (m>of of his own Ugh sense of virtue, nd juat hatred of-nn.

And yet one would think, (bat a man needed no other are for tUs distemper, than this one redectioi^

That if this bad been the spirit of the Sob of God, 'he had iiated sin in (bis manner, there had been do re- emption of the world i >Thatif God had hated nnnere I this manner day and night, the wofld itself had ceased Mg ago.

This, therefore, we may take for a certain role, that le more we parlaka of the divine nature, the more im- roved we-are onrseWes ; and the higher our sense of vir- le is, the more wa shall pity and compassionate those who '3Dt it. The sight of such people wil) then, instead of lising in us a haughty contempt, or peevish indignation jwards them, 611 us with such bowels of compassion, as 'hea ire see the miseries of an hospital.

That the follies, therefore, crimes and ill behaviour of ur fellow-creatures, may not lessen that love and tender- ess which we are lo hare for all mankind, we should flen consider the reason on which this duty of love is onnded.

Now we are to love our neighbour, that is, all man- jnd, not because they are wise, holy,' virtnous, orwell- ehaved ; for all mankifld neither ever was, nor ever will e'80; therefore it ia certain, that the reason of our being bliged to love them, cannot be founded in their virtue.

A^^in; if their virtue or goodness were the reason of (IT being obligedto lo»e peopU, we should have no rule > proceed by; because though- some people's virtue or . ices are very notorioos, yet, generally speaking, we are ut very ill judges of the virtue and merit of other people.

Thirdly, We are sure that the virtue or merit of per- wis, is not the reason of our being obliged (o lore them,.



hevout-and holy Lira. m

kecause w« are commaBded to pa; the higheit instance* of love to our worst enemies ; we are to lore and bless, and pray tor those that most injuriously treat us. This therefore is demoastralion, that the merit of persons is not the reason on wfakh ottr obligation to love them ii founded.

Let us fsrtbw consider, what that love is, whioh we owe to our neighbour. It is to tore bim as ourselves,' that is, to have all those sentiments towards htm, which we have towards ourselves; to wish him every tbing that we may, lawfully wish to ourselves ; to be glad of Ivery

god, and sorry for every , evil that happens to him : u^ ready to do him all such acts of kindness, as we ars always ready to do ourselves.

This love therefore, joa see, is nothi^ else but a love of benevolence ; it requires nothing of us, bat such good wishes, tender a&ections, and such acts of kindnest, as we shew to ourselves.

This is all the love that we owe to the best of men ; and we are never to wast any degree of this love to the 'worst, or most uareasonable man in the world.

Now what is the reason why we are to love every 'man in this manner ? it is answered that our obligation to love all men in this manner, is founded upon many



First, Upon a reason of equity; for if it is just to love ourselves in fbis manner, it must be unjust to deny any degree of this love to others, because every man is so exHctiy of the same nature, and in the same condilitm as vnrselves. ^

if therefore your own crimes and follies do not lessen your oblii^tion to seek your own good, and wish well to yourself; neither do the follies and crimes of your neigh- bour leseea your obligation to wish and seek the good of your ne^hbonr. *.

Another .reason for this love is founded in the author* ity of God, who has commanded us to love every man as joarsel£

Thirdly, We are obliged to this love, in imitation of Cod's goodness, that we aHly ibe cbildreo of oar Father, lirlHch s in Heaven, vtk<^ will«tti the happinets of idl Ua



I, Google



Stt 1 SnUOUS CALL TO A

enatwes, and ntak^ his smi to rise en Ihe evO, and on tbe good.

Fonrtkly, Our redemptiott by Jesaa Christ, calleth ub to the exercise of this love, who cante from heaven, and bid down bis life, oat of love to the whole sinfol world.

Fifthly, By the commnnd o£ odf Lord and SaTiour, who has required as to love one anodker, a« he has lov- ed ».

Thete are the great perpetual reasons, on which tmr obligatioB to love all mankind as oaiselves, is found* «d.

These reasons never vary, or cfaan^, Ihey always continae in their full force ; aitd therefore equally oblige at all times, and in regard to all persons.

God loves OS, not because we are wise, and good, and holy, bttt in pi^ to us, because we want this happiness : be loves o«, in order to make us good. Our love Iber^ ibre must take this course ; not looking for, or reqairing the nerit of oiir brethren, but pitying their disorders, and wttbing ihein all the good that they want, and are cap» ble of receivings

It appears now plainly fron what has been said, Hat the love which w« owe to our brethren, is only a love of benevolence. Secondly, That this duty of benevo- lence is founded upon such reasons as never vary or •diange; sncb as have no dependance upon the qual- ities of persons. From whence it tbilons, that it is the sane great sin, to want this love to a bad man, as to want it to a good man. Because he that denies any of this beneTolence to a bad man, offends against all 4be same reasws of love, as be does that denies any benevolence to a good man: And cpasequently it is lh« same sin.

When thepef(»« you let loose an ill natured pas- sion, either of hatred or c<Hitempt towards (as you suppose) an jtl man, consider what you would think of another, that was doing the same towards a good man, and be assured that yeu.'.are ^onmiitting the samo sin.

You will perhaps say, HAr is it poeable to love a ffoB^ and a bad man ia the same dej?«e f



I, Google



BEVODT AND HOLY UFK. sSff

Just H it [b possible to be aa jutt ami iaitbfut to a gooS Stan, as to an evil Btan. Now are 3^011 m aoy difficulty about perfonnin^ justice and faitbfulaeit to a bad man? Are you in any doubts, wbetber yi>u need be so jwt and fai(hful to bira, as you need be to a ^^d man? Kow why it it, that you are in ao doubt about it? It is because .you know that justice and 'failbfulness are Ibuuded upon reasons tbat never ivury or cbai^e, that bare no depead- ance upon the merita of men, but are founded in the nature of things, in the laws of God, aad therefore are to . be observed witli an equal exactnesD towards good and liad men. ,

Now do but think thus'justly of charity, or love to your neighbour, that it is founded upon retuoos that vary sot, that have 00 dependance upon the merits of men, and Ihen you will fiad it as poaaiblelo perform the same eiaet cliarity, as the same exact justice to all men, whether ^od or bad.

Ifou will perhaps farther ask, if jou are not to hsre a particular esteem, veneratiAn, and f«verence for good men?*lt is answered 1 Yes. But then this high esteem Knd veneration, is a thing very different from that love of lienevolence which we owe to our neigt^tour.

The high esteem aad veneration which you have for « man of eminent piety, is no act of charily to him; it is not of pily imd compassion that you so reverence him, but it is rather an act of charity to yourself, that «uch esteem and veaeration may excite y9u to follow faia <exan)ple.

You may, mid ought to love, like, and approve the life which the good man leads ; but then this is only the loving of virtue, wherever we se£ it And we do not love virtue with the love of benevolence as any thing that wants our good wishes, but as something that is our proper good.

The whole of the matter is this. The actions which you are to love, esteem, and admire, are the actions of good and pious men ; '"i^tfn persons to whom you are to do all the good you dm, in all sorts of kindness .and. compassion, are all persons v^hdther good or bad.

This distinction belwizt love of bencvoleac«(Wid|tte««t



...MuGooglc



ttb A SERIOUS CALL TO A

•r Tcneration, to TCFy plain and obrimiR. AwT yen may perhaps Hill better see the plaiiiB«« and aecesait; of H, bj this following instance.

No man is to have a high esteem, or bbnour, for his •wn accomplishments, or behaviour ; yet eveiy man b to lore hiibseU', thtf i», to wish well to himself; therefore this distinctioD hetwixt loye and esteem, is not only plain, bat very oecesBary to be observed,

AgwD : if yoa think it hardly possible to dislike the ac- lions (^nnreasonable men,«nd yet have a true lore br them : consider this with relation to yourself.

It is very possible, I hppe, for yog not only to dislike, bnt to detest and abhor a great many of your own past actions, and to accnse yonnelf with great folly for tbem. Bnt do yoa then lose any of those tender sentiments to- wards yourself, which yon nsed to have T Do yoo then cease to wish well to yourself? Is not the love of your- self as strui^ then, as at any other time ?

Kow what is thni possibie with relaticHi to onrselvei, is in the same manner pomble with relation to otheis. We may hare the highest good wishes towards them, de- siring for them eyery g<M>d that we desire for ourselves, and yet at the same time dislike their way of Ufe.

To proceed ; all that love which we may justly havs fl>E oarselves, we are in strict justice obUged to exercise towards all other men | and we offend against the great law of oor nature, and the greatest laws of God, when onr tempers towards others ar^ different from those which we have towards ourselves.

Now that self-lore which is just and r^eonable, keeps OS constantly tender, compamioDate, and well affected to- wards oarselves ; if Uierefore yon do not feel these kind dispositiona towards all other people, you may be assured, that you are not in thatstate of cbari^, which is the veiy life and soul of Christian piety.

¥ea know how it bnrts you to be made the jest and ci£cale of other people ; how it griswes you to be robbed «f yonr reputation, and de«rired of the faTonrable opin- ion of yonr neighbours : If therefore you expose otbeis to scorn and coatampt in aay degree ; if it pleases yoo to •e&,jr hev ^f tb«ir inilties or infimiliei ; or if yo« aiq



iivGoogli'



DEVOUT ASD HOLY UTE. tfl

flOly loaUi to conceal their faults, you are ao far from lor- log 9ach people (u jounelf, that yoa may be justly sup-

ftosed to have as much hatred for them, as jou have lovs or jounelf. For socfa tempers ^re as truly the proper fniits of hatred, as the contrary tampers are the proper fruits of lore. -

And as it is a certain sign that you love yourself, be- cause you are tender of every thin; that concerns you ; so it is as certain a sign that you hate your neighbour, when yon are pleased with any thing that hurts hiin.

But DOir, if the want of a true and exact charity be •» great a want, that, as St Paul saltb, it renders oar great- est virtues bat empty sounds, aod tinkling oyinbals, how highly does it concern us to study every art, and practice every method of raising our souls to this state of charity ? It is for this reasoD, that you are here desired, not to let this hour of pruyer pnss, without a full and solemn suppli- cation to God, for all the instances of an universal love and benevolence to all mankind.

Such daily constant devotion, being the only likely maana of preserving you in such a state of love, as is necessary to prove yoa to bo a trae follower of JesA Christ.



Of (he neccBtity and benefit odnitneiiivn, considered as ui eseiv ^ ' cioe oT universal love. How all orden of men are to pray and ' (} intercede with God for oneanotber. llonr naturally auch inter- ceuion amends and reroi;D» the heart* of those that ase it |

THAT intcrcessioii is a great and necessary part of Christian devotion, is very evident from Scripture.

The first followers of Christ seem tt^upport all their .love, and to maintain all their intercourse and coi



deuce, by mutual prayers for one another






t!ft X SERIOUS CAIi TO A.

St. Pan), whetiiM- he writ^ to ohvicbec or parfinhf- f eiMOf), Bbem hie iaterceamoa to be perpetaal lor them^ that ttuj* ar« the eonstant subject of his pntyeis.

Thus (o the PhiUippians, / thattk my God upo» even/ rO- iMmbnmm of yott. Aheayiinevergpraytref-tnirieforyau all, making rtqaal ■with jotj. Phil. i. 4. b. Here ne see, not oaly a contiDual mtercesaioD, but performed witb so much gladbe»s as ihewq that it was an exercise of love, ib which lie highly r^iced.

His JeToLon had also the same care for particular p^^ KOM, as appear* bj the following pwMge. / thank mtij Ood, akoM I terve from my forefiuhtf*, with a pur* <»»■ tcit*et, thai, viihovt etatiag, I haM reaumiranee of thee cit' mg pratftn, »ight and dag, 2 Tim. i. 3. H«w ho^ aa ac- ^uniotuce and frieodahtp wm this, bow worthy of pei^ soM that were raised above the world, and related to one * another, as new members of a kiagdom of beaven I

Apostles an^ great saints did not only thos benefit md bless particular churches, and priTate persons ; but they themselves also received graces from God by the prayers of others. ThossaithSit Panl to the Corkithians, IW *lio helping togetktr by prayer for ««, Aat for the gift ie- »lowtd upon iu by the meant of many penoju, thankt may bt fivea by ma ny ^rt mir beltalf, 2 Cor. i. 1 ] .

This was the ancient mendship of Christians, uniting and cementing their hearts, not by norldly cousiderdtions ef haman passions, but by the mutuni communications of ■piritinl Mossings, by prayer* and thanksgivings toGed for one another.

It wftS this holy intercession that raised Christians to -such a state of mutani love, as fiir eitceeded all that bad been praised anJ admired in human friendship. And when the same s[Hrit of intercession is again in the world, when Christianity has the same power over the hearts of people, that it then had, this holy friendship will be again in fashion, and ChristiHns will be again the wonder ofthe world, for that exceeding love which they bear to one another.

For a frequent intercession with God, earnestly he- ^seeching him to f»give the sins of all mankind, to bleaa them tftjk bis providence, eoii{;;hten them with his spiritv



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. 883

aod'briag them to everlastiog hxppiaess, is the di?iDeet exercise that the Jieart of maD can be engaged in.

Be daily ^therefore oa your knees in a eolemn, delibe- rate pttrforiaance of this de^votioo, praying for others in forms, with such length and importunity, and eameatnew, as you use for yourself; and you will find all little ill- natured passions die away, your heart grow great and generous, delighting in the common happiness of others, as you used gnly to delight in your own.

For he that daily prays to God, that all men may be liiippy in heaven, takes the likeliest nay to make him Irish foiv and delight in their bappineas on earth. And it is hanlly possible for yob to beseech and intfeat God to make any one happy in the highest enjoyments of his glory to all eternity, and yet be troubled (o see him eii' joy the much smaller gifts of God in this short and low state of human life. For how strange and unnatural would it be to pray to God to grant health and a longer life to a sick man, and at the same time to envy him the

Kw pleasures of agreeable medidnes? Vet this would no more strange, or unnatural, than to pray to God tbat your neighbour may enjoy the highest <!egree8 of his mercy and favour, and yet at the same time envy him the little credit and figure he hath among his fellow- creatures.

When therefore you have once habituated your heart to a seiious performance of this holy intercession, you have done a greal deal to render it incapable of spite an^. envy, and to make it naturally delight in the happiness' of all mankind. This is the natural effect of a general interces^on for all mankind. But the greatest benefits «f it are then received, when it descends to such p^ic ular instances as our stale and condition in life more par- ticularly require of us.

Though we are to treat all mankind as neighbour« and brethren, as any occasion oB'ers ; yet as we can only live in the actual sciciety of a few, and are by our slate and condition more particularly related to some than others; •o when our intercession is made an exercise of lovs.and care for those amongst whom our lobas fallen, or who belong to us in a nearer relation, irlhen becames (he 26* IP

r.^...-.ii,G00glc



fit! A SERIOUS CALL TO A

greatest heneUt to oantirea, and produces its beet efieetv Jd our own ttearts. If therefore you «hould alwaj» change and utter jonr interceniona accordii^ as the needs and necessities of yotir netghbonrs or acqnaintance seem to require ; beseeching God to' delirer them from SQCh or Bach particuJar evils, or to grant them tiiis or that particular gift, or Messing ; such interceseione,' be- sides the great charity of them, would have a migh^ ef- fect npon jonr own heart, as dispoeii^ yon to every oth- er good office, and to the exercisf of evety other rnrtife towards sach persons, as have so often a place in yoor prayers.

This wotild make it pleasant to you to be conrteonsy civil and condescending to all about you ; aod make yon nnable to say, or do, a rude, or hard thing to those, for whom you had tised yourself to be so kind and compa»' sionate in year prayers. For there is nothing that makes tB love a man so mncb, as praying for him ; and wfaes y4M can once do this sincerely for any man, you bave titled your soul for the perfwraaoce of every thing that is kind and civil towards him. This will Gil your beatt with a generosity, and tenderness, that will give yoa^ better and sweeter behaviour, than any tlung that is cal- led finn breeding and good manners.

By considerii^ yourself as an advocate witb God Aw ^our neighbours and acqnaintance, you wonldnever find it har4 to be at peace nith them yoai|elf. It wouM be easy to you to bear with,' and forgive those, for whom you particularly implored the divine mercy and forgive- ness.

Such prayers as tbeee «mongst neighbours ebclacqnaiii- -tance, would ooite them to one another in the strongest bonds of love and tendemess. It would eialt and enno- ble their souls, and teach them tS consider one anothev in a higher state, as members of a spiritual society, thai are created for the enjoyment of the common blessingH of God, and fellow-heirs of the same future glory. And by being thus desirous, that every one should have theis full share of the favours of God, they would not only be content, but g)^ to see one another happy in the litr tie cuMmients of this transitory life. These would be •the ntHBtal effesb of such sq intercession amongst people"



DEVOXJT AND HOLT UFE. SM

•f the lame town or neighbourhood, or who were ac- quaisted vith ooe another's state aod coadiliOD.

Ouranios is a holy priest, full of the epirit of the gog. pel, watching, labouring, and pniyii^ for a poop countiy Tillage. Every soul in it is as dear to bim as himself;. «id he loves them alt, as he loves himself; becaiiw he prays for them all, as often as he prays for himself. If his whole life is oae continual exercise of great zeal and labonr, hardly ever satisfied with any degrees of care and waUihAilness, it is because he has learned the great value of souls, by so otlen appearing before God, as an inter- oeasor for (hem.

He never 4biid(S he can love, or do enough for hi* llock ; becanse he never conMders Uiem in any other Tiew, than as so many persons, who by receivings the gifts and graces of God, are to become bis hqpe, bis joy, and bis crown of rejoicing. He goes ahout his parish, asd visits every body in it ; bat visits in the same spirit of piety that he preaches to them ; he visits them to enconr- Bge their virtues, to assist them with his advice andcoun* sel, to discover their manner of life, and to know ibe state of their seals, that be mny intercede with God for tbem, accwding to theirparticular necessities.

When Ouranius first entered into holy orders, he had a haughtiness in his temper, Agreat contempt and disre- gard for all foolish and unreasonable people ; but he has prayed away this spirit, aod has now the greatest tender- ness for the most obstinate sinners ; because he is alwayf hoping, that Qod will sooner or later hear those prayer* that he makes for their repentance. The rudeness, ill- nature, or perverse behaviour of any of his flock, used at first to betray him into impatience ; but it now raises ho other passion in bim, than a desire to be upon his knees in prayer to God for ihem.

Thus have his prayers for others, altered and amended the state of bis own heart It would strangely delight jon to see with what spirit be converses, with what leo- deniess he reproves, with what affection he eiborts, and with what vigour he preaches ; and it is all owing to this, because he reproves, exhoris aq^reacbes to those JoF whom be first prays to God. This devotion ^fteni M» lie«rt> enlightens bis mmd, Bweetens his (emper^



SM A SERIOUS CALL TO A

and raakec ever; thuig (hat comes from him, iDBtrDctive, nmiftble and »Sectiog. At bis firat coming to this little Tillage, it was as disagreeable to him as a prifMw, and erer; day aeemed too te4iouB to be endured io so r^ired ft place. He thought his parish was too full of poor aod mea%people, who were oooe of them fit for the conrer- satioD of o geaileman.

This puts him upon a close application to tus studies. He kept much at Jiome, wrote notes upon Homer aad PUutus, and sometimes thon^t it hard to be called to pray by any poor body, when he was just ia the midst of ooe of Homer's battles. This was his polite, or I may rather say, poor ignorant ttim of mind, before devotioa had got the goTemment of his heart. But now bti days are so far from being tedious, or bis parish too great a reljrement, that he now only wants more lime to do that rariety of good which "his soul thirsts after. The solitude ofjiis little parish is become matter of great comfort to him, because be hopes thai God bus placed -him and his flock there, to make it th^ir way to beaveo. He can now not only converse with, but gladly attend and wait upon the poorest kind of people. He is now duly watching over die weak and infirm, humbling him- self to .perverse, rude, ignorant people wherever he can find them ; and is so far from desiring to be considered as a gentleman, that he desires to be used as the servant of all ; and id (he spirit of his Lord and Master girds hiro- iaelf, and is glad to kneel down and wash any of their feet. He now thinks the poorest creature in bis parish good enough, and great enough, to deserve the humblest attendances, the kindest friendships, the teoderest offices, he can possibly shew them. He is so far now from wanting ngreealile company, that he thinks there is no better coBversation in die world, than to be talking with poor and mean people about the kingdom of heaven. All these noble thoughts and divine seatimeots are the effects of his great devotion ; he presents every one so ' often before God in his prayers, that he never thinks he can esteem, reverence or serve those enough, for whom he implores so qgliy mercies from God.

Ouranius is mightily affected with this passage of holy ■cripture : The effectual /erveat prayer of a rigkttma maa



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFE. . sVf

aoatleth mu^. Jdmee v. 16. This make^^iiti practise aXI - the art* of bolj living, asd aspire after every. instance of piety and righteousneas, that his prayers for his fleck may have tlieir full force, and avail much with God.. For this reason he has sold a bbmII estate tbat he had, and. has erected a charitable retiretDent for ancient, poor peo- ple to lire in prayer and piety, that his prayers beingr assisted by such good works, may pierce the clouds, and bring down blessings upoif thot!e souls committed to bi* mre.

Ouranius reaila how Ood himself said unto Abimelecti concerning ^rabam, He ia a prophet : he thali pray for ihte^ a^ld Hum thatt live.. Gen. xs. 7. And Hgats, hon he ■aid of Job : And my aervant Job thail pray Jot yt»i ; for kim tniii I ai^ept. Job slii. 8,

From these passages, Onranius jastiy concludes, that the prayers of men eminent for holiness of life, hate an extraoniinaFy power with God ; that he grants to other people stich pardons, reliefs, and blessings, lhrongh> their pFayeis, a|^ would not be granted to men of less piety and perfection. ThU mafcea Ocranins exceeding itadioos of Christian perfection, searching- after erery grace and holy temper, purifying his heart all manner of ways, fearfnlofeveiy error and defect in his life, lest bi«pmy«T» for his flock should be less availing with God, through hi» own defects in holiness.

This mates him earefnl of evety temper of his hearU gives alms of all that he hath, watch, and fast, and mor3^ tify, and live according to the strictest rnles ef tem- perance, meekness, and humility, that he may be in some degree like an Abrahnro, or a Job, in his parish, and make sijich prayers for them, as God mill hear and accept

These are the happy effects, which a <tevout interces- ■ion hath produced in the life of Ouranius. And if other people in their several stations, were to imitate this ex- ample, in such a manner as suited their particular state of life, they wonld certainly find the same Ijappy effects from it.

If masters, for instance, were thus to remember their servants in their prayers, beseeching CM to bless them, md suiting tiieir petitions to the particular wants bdA



«H , 1 SERIOtffl.CALL TO A

fMcenitiea or Ih^ serTUtts ; lettiw no da; past, WHk- ont a full perfonnaDM of this part of devotion ; the ben- efit would be as great to themselres, as to their senraDtH. Ho wa; ia ho Ukelj as this, to inspire them with a true ■eme of that power which they haye in their haods, to make them delight in doing good, and becoming exenn plarjr in all the parts of a wiie nod good master. The pr«>eDtiQg their servants so often before God, as equally related to God, and entitled t» Ibe same expectations •of heaven, as themselves, wonld oaturallj incline them (o treat tbem, not only with sodi hnmsni^, as become fellow-creatores, but with snch tenderaess, care, and generoeitj, as become fellow-heirs of the asme glory. This devotion wonM make masters inclined to every thii^ (bat was good towards their servants ; be watchiut of their behavioar, and as ready to require of (bem an exact observance of the duties of Christianity, as of Ibe duties of their eervanla. This would teach them to coO' aider tbeir servanls as God's servants, lo desire their per- fection, to do nothing before tbem that might corrupt their minds, to impose no bustoess upon Ihcm tlmt should lessen thvir Miue of rB%><>n, or hinder tbem from their full share of devotion, bolb public and -private. This fnfieg for then, would make tbem as glad to see their servants eminent in piety as tbemaelres, and contrive that they should have all the opportunities, and encoar-i agemenis, both lo know and perfonn all the duties of IM Gbristian life. How natural would it be for such a master, (o perfonn every P*^ "f fnraily'derotiOn ; to hare constant prayers ; to excuse no one's absence from tbem ; to have the scriptures, and books of piety, often read amongst bis aervaoti ; to take all opportunitiea of tnstnicting them, of raising their minds to God, and teach* ing tbem to do all their business, as a service to God, and upon the hopes and expectations of another life t How natural would it be for nch an one lo pity theirweakness and ignorance, to bear with the duloesa of their under- standings, or the perreiseDesB of their tempers ; to re- prove them with tenderness, esbort them with afieclion, as hoping that God would bear his prayers for them ? Hew impossible would it«be for a master, that thus interced- ed with God for his eerrants, to use any mikind threat-



■pEVDDT ARD HOLT UFE. _ XM

vniogis towards them, to damn and curfe tbem as dogs and scouadrels, andtreat them only aa the dregs of the creation. This devotion would give them another spirit, and make them consider hot* to make proper returns of care, kiDdness and protection to those, who Kd spent their strength and time in service and attendance upon Ihem. *

Now if gentlemen think it so low an employment fox their slate and dignity, to exercise such a deyotioo as this for their servants, let them consider how far they are from the spirit of Christ, who made himself not only an intercessor, tnit a sacrifice for the whole rtlce of sinfal siankiDd.

Let them consider how miserable their greatness would be, if the Son of God should 'think it as much below him to pray for them, as they do to pray for their fellow- creatures. Let them consider bow far they ture irom that spirit, which prays for its most unjust ene- oiies if they have not kindness enough to pray for those, by whose labours and service they live in ease them- sel*es.

Again; if parents should thus make themselves advo- oetes and intercessors with God fdr their children, con- stantly applying to heaven in behalf of tbem, nothing would be more likely, not only to bless their childrcTb bnt also to form and dispose their own minds to the per- formance of every thing that wag excellent and praise- worthy. I do not suppose, but that the gen«rali^*.if parents remember (heir children in their prayers, an« call upon God to bless them. But the thing here intend- ed, is not a general remembrance of them, but a regular method of recommending all their particular needs and necessities unto God ; and of praying for every such par- ticular grace and virtue for them, as their state and c<»>- dition of hfe shall seem to require.

The state of parents is a holy state, in some degree like that of the priesthood, and calls upon tbem to bless their ohUdren with their prayers and sacrifices to God. Thus it was that holy Job watched over, and blessed his children, he tanctifitd tkem, he rose up early in the momiMg 0iid offered bvriit offtringi^ aeeordutg tt> the nwnW of (Ann pll. Job. 1,5.



I Goojjic



30O A OStlOim CALL TO A.

If pareMi, tberefbre, contiderii^ thenwelres ia Ihis ligbti ahoulil be daily callii^ opon God in a Bolemn, de- liberate manner, altering and extending their interce»- situs, as the state and granrth of Iheir children reijuired, aucb demotion would have a mighty infiaence upon the rest of their lives ; it would make them very circumspect in the fOTenimeDt of themselves ; prdHent and careAiI of every thing they said or did, lest their eiample should liinder that, which they to constantly desired in their ' prayers. If a father was daily making particular pmyen to God, that he woulii please to inspire his children with true piety, great humility, and strict temperance, what could be more likely to make the father himself become «xen^lary in the^e virtues ? How naturally nonid he (row ashamed ef waDting such virtues, as be tbou^t ne- cessary for bis children f So that his prayers for t^ir pi- ety, would be a oertaln meana of ezalUDg his own to Ha greatest height.

If a father thns coosidered himself as an intercesaor with God for his children, to b\ex them with his prayers, what'more likely means to make him aspire after every degree of holiness, that be might thereby be fitter to o^ tain blessings from heaven for them ? How would soch thoughts make him nvoid every thing that was sinful and displeasing to God, 1e«<t when he prayed for hii children, <]iod should reject his prayers ! How tenderly, how re^ lig^ously, would such a father converse with bis children, whom he considered as his little spiritual flock, whose Tirtues be was to form by his example, encourage by his authonty, nourish by his counsel, aod prosper by his prayers to God for themT

How fearful would he be of all greedy and unjust ways of raising their fortune, of briogii^ them up in pride and indulgence, or of making them loo fond of the worid, lest he should thereby render them incapable of those graces which he was so often beseeching God to grant tbem.

These being the plain, natural, happy effects of this intercesiion, alt parents', 1 hope, who have the real wel- &» of their children, at heart, who desire to be their irae friends and benefactors, and to live amoi^st tbem id thfr spirit of wisdom and piety, will not neglect so great a



DETOUTAim B01.T £SE. 0^

mmiBB, b^th of rwsiojT their omi Tirtue, and (hni^rui eter- nal good to those, who are so oear and dear to them, by Ihe stroogest ties of nature.

L/utly, If all people, when tbej feel the first approach- es of resentment, euvj, or contempf, towards otkers ; or if in all liltle disagreements, and misuoderstandings whel- «ver, the; shoobl, instead of indulging their minds with little, low reflections, have recooree at such titnes to a tuore particular and extraordinarji intercession with. God, for such persons ^ had raised their envy, resenttnent, or discontent ; this would be a ceztain way to prereDt the ' growth of all onchartlable tempers. If 50a was also 4* form_your prayer, or iDtereestion at that. time, to the ^greatest degree ofcootrarie^ te that temper whi^h ye« was thea in, it-wouU be an excellent means sf raisntg your heart to the greatest state of perfection. As foe instance : when at any time you find io.your he«rt mo- Aieos of enry towards any person, whether on account of his riches, power, reputation, learning, or edvanceinent, if^ou should immediately betake yourself at that time t« your prayers, and pray to Uod to bless and pro^»er him in that very thing, which raised your envy.; if you should «spre6s aad repeat your petitions in the strongest terms, betieecbbg Qod to grant bim all the happiness from the enjoyment of it, that can possibly be received, you would «flon find it to be the best antidote in the world, to expel the venom of that poispnous passion. This would be «ucb a triunph over yourself, would so humble and re- duce your heart into obedience and order, that the tievit would even be afraid of templing you again in the same manner, when he saw the temptation turned into so £reat a means of amending and reforming the state of jour heart

Again; If in any little difference or misunderstaodingi that you bappesed to have at any time with a rela- tion, a ne^hbour, or any one else, you should then pray for them in a.more extraordinary manner, than you ever did before, beseeching God to give them every gnice, and biessing, and happiness you can think of, you would faave taken the speediest method that can be, of recon- ciling alt differences, and clearit^ up all misunderstand- injp. You would then tbiok aothmg too great to be



:tm ■* (ERious CAU. to a.

fiiBgivei], stay for 110 condeBceiHioiw, ae«d no me&tfait «f a third peison, bot be glad to tealify jour love uwt food will to huQ, who had to high a place m ;oiir se- cret pfByera. This woiM be the mighty power of such Cbmtian devotion ; it would remove all peerish pa»- ••M, soften your heart into tha most lender conde- •cenfiiODS, and be the best arbitrator «f all differences that happened betweeo you and any of your acijaainl- ance.

The greatest reientmenta einoi^t friend* and neigb- boura DHMt often ariae from poor ponctilios and little ■uaUke* in cnoduct. A certain sign that their fnendsbip if merely human, not founded upoa religious coaaidera- li»iui,,or loppArted by Mch a course of mutual p'rayer A>r one another, a* the , first Christians used. For such devotion must necesearily either destroy Njch tempers, or be itself destroyed by them. You cannot possibly have iU temper, or shew any unkind behaviour to a man for whose Welfare you are so much conceraed as to be hia lidvocate nilh God in private.

Hence ve may learn the odious nature and exceeding guilt of spite, hatred, contenipt, and angry pastiogs ; they arc act to be considered as defects in gooid nnture and sweetness of temper, not as failings in civility of mwners or good breeding, but aa such base lempen, as are entirely incoDsiatent with the ci.arity of intercesnion. Tou think it a small matter lo be peevish or. ill-natured to such or such a man ; but yon should cowider, whe- ther it be a small matter to do that, which you could not do, if yoa had but so much charity as to be- able to lecommend him to God in your prayers. Yon think it a small matter to ridicule one man, and despise anoi ther; but you should consider, whether it be a small matter to want that charily towards these people, which Christiaoa are not allowed to want towards their most inveterate enemies. For be but es charitable to these men, do but bless and pray for them, as you are obliged tft bless and pray for your enemies, and then yon will find that you have charity enoi^h, to make it impossi- ble for you lo treat them with any degree of sfom op cpntempt- For you f amiot pi^itbty despUs and ri4f b1«



llyGpOglC



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFt. SB

(fiat min whom your pri»ale prayers recommend to Uw love and fevoar of God. ^

When you despise and ridicule a mnn, it is witli no oth- er endbuKo taak'e bim ridicalous and contemptible in tfte eyes of other men, and in order to prevent their es- teem of him. How therefore can it be possible foryoa ancerely to beseech God to Mess that man with the bon- , our of his tore and tttvour, whom you desire men to treat; ^ worthy of their contempt.

Could you out of love lo b neigbboar, desire your prince to houour him with every mwlc of esteem end fa- vour, and yet at thesametime expose him to the scorn and derision of your ortn aerviints 7 Yet this is as possi- ble, 09 to eipose that mnn lo the Scorn and contempt of youf'feltoiv-creatures, whom ydu recommend ta the fa-- TOur of God in y'oar secret' prayers.

From those considerations we ifi:iy plainly discover the raasonablene^a and justice of this doctrine of the Gospel, Whosoever ihalt )ay tatto kis brother, flacfto,' akmll bt in daur- ger of the amncil ; bul whoineitr »4«M.*aj, Thou/ool,- >hcil bt in icrngtr nf hsU-firt. "Miitt. v. 22. We are oof, 1 sim- pose, to believe that every hasty word, or anreasoDa&lft expression that slips from us by chance, or surprise, and is contrary lo our intention and temper?, is the great sir here signified. But he that say^, Racha, or thou art a fool, must chiefly meaii Km thai allows himself in delib- erate, deseed a'.ts of scorn , and contempt towards his brother, ana in that temper speaks to him, and of him, in reproachful language.

^Kow since it appears that these tempera arc at the bottom ihe most rank uncharitabl^ess, since no one can be guilty of them, but because he has not charity enough to pray to God for bia brother ; it cannot be thought haril or rigorous justice, that such tempers should en- danger Ihe^ salvation oi Christians. For who would think it hard, that a Christian cannot obtain the favour of God for himself, unless he reverence arid esteem hit brother Christian, as one that bears the image of God, as ooe for whom Christ died, as a member of Christ^* body, as a member of that holy society on earth, which is in union with that triumphast church in heaven? Tot ail these coasideratioiu must ly foi^t, all these glorioup-



SU A SEKIOCS CAIX lO A

frifilcgea (bregankd, before rnui can treat hirndbtflinr them, OS an object of »com and contempt. So that to ■onni or de«pue a brother, or, m onr blessed Lord ■ayS). to csllhim Rncha or fool, most be leoked upon ac amonj^st the most odious, unjust and guilty tempen, that can be Mpported in the heart of »Cbri»han,and justl; exclodiDgr Um from all his hopes in the salvatioa of Jesas Chrieti For Co despise one for tvhom Christ died, is to be as cod- trary to Cbi-ist, as be that despise» any thing that ChriiC has said, or done.

If a Christian that had h'Ved with the holj Vir^ Har/^ dMold, afVer the death of our Lord, bare taken any oc- cason to treat her with contempt, you would certainly say, that be had lost his piety towards our bletised Lord, For a. trae rerM«nce for Christ most bare forced him to treat her with respect, who was so nearly related ta taim.

Idare appeal to any man's mind, whether it dees not tell hfm, that Ifaia relation of the Virgin Har; to our VIeAsed Lord, mnst have obliged all those that lired and squTOrabd with her, to treat ber'with great respect and e«tt!em'. Might not e taan bare justly dreaded the Ten- geance of God'upon him, for any sconi and ca&ten^t that ho had^ewti to her?

How if this be plain and obvious reasonii^, if a cock teitipt offered to the Vii^n Mal^ must have been inters preted a contempt of Christ, because of her near rele- tion to him ; then let the same reason shew ytfb the great impiety of despising any, brother. You cannot despise a brother, without despisinr him that stahds in a high re- lation to God, to his y>n Jesus Christ, and to the Holy- Trinity.

You would certainly think it a mighty impiety to treat a writing with great contempt, that had been writteg b^ the finger of God ; and can you think it a less impiefy to contemn and villify a brother, who is not only the work- manship, but the image of God ? You would justly think it great profaneness lo contemn and trnmple «pon an altar, because it was appropriated to holy uses, and bad bad the body of Christ so often placed upon it ,■ and can you suppose it to be less profaneness to scorn and trample 1900 a brotheii wbn so Igclot^ to God, tbcit his veiy



DEVOUT AND HOLY UFE. 3Dti

bod; U -t« be considered w the Itaadt o/tSe Sabi Qkott, 1 Cor. Ti. 15.

tjbdyou despised and ill-treated the Vii^b Alary, you hadheeD chargeable ffith the impiety of despisii^ her, of whom Christ waa born. And if you scorn and despise



a brothe^ you are chargeable widi the impiety of dea< '

pj|ii^ him, for whom Christ laid down bis Ufe. And now

if this scornful teiqper is founded upon a disreg^ard of all



these ere lationst which erery Christian bears to God, and Christ, and the Holy Trinity, can you wonder, or think ifchard, that a.Christian who thus allows himself to des- jHse a brother should be in danger of bell fire ?

Seeondlg, It must here be obserred, that though in these words, whosoever shall say, than fool, &c. the great an there conteouied is an allowed temper of des-

Eiaing a brotherj yet we are also to betieTe, that all nsty expressions, and words of contempt, though spol|- .^n hy surprise or accident, are by this text condenut- ed as great sins, and notorious breaches of Christiaa chanly. ,

Tbey proceed from great want of Christian love and meekness, and call for great repentance. They are oo^ little sins, when compared with habits aud settled tempers of treatii^ a brother despitefully, and fall as directly under the condemnation of this t^st, as the grossest ha- biU of uncharitable ness. And the reason why we are alwayi to apprehend great guilt, and call ourselves to a Strict re peatance for these hasty expressions of anger and contempt, is this; because they seldom are what they seem to be, that is, mere ^||^ts of temper, that are oc- casioned purely by surprise or accident; but are much more our own proper acts, than we generally imagine. A man says a great many bitter things; he presently foivives himself, t>ecauae he supposes it was only the fluipeDness of the. occasion, or something accidental, that carried him so far beyond himself. But he should con- aider, that perhaps the accident, or surprise, was not the occasion of hb angry expressions, but might onlybe tht occasion of his angry temper shewing itself. Now s* this is, gaaerilly speaking, the case, as all haughty, angry lajiguage generally proceeds from some secret habita ai «6*



I, Google



•M A 8£R10US call TO A

piiit in tbe he«irt; go'fwople thftt are mbject to-it, tboogh only now and then as accidents happen, bave great reason (o repent of more than their preaent he^a- viaar, to charge themse)?e8 «ith greater gtiHt than acci- deAtal passion, and to bring themselves to snch penance and mortification, as il proper to destroy baMts of a hanghty spirit And Ibie may be the reason, why llib text looks no farther than the ovtwavd langoage ; why it only says ; whoioever shaU tayj tboa fool; baeaiise few can pnceed so far, as to the acddental use of ba<%b- ty, (lisdainfal langnagp, birt they whose hearts are more or less possessed with habits and settled tempers of pii^ and haaghtiness.

Butto retnm: inlercesrion is not only die best arbi- trator of ali differences, the beat promoter rftrue friend- ship, the best cure and preservative against all ankiad ■mpers, all angry and haughty pas^ons, but is also of great use to discover to uff the tnie state of our own hearts.

There are many tempera which we thjnk lawfel and ipnoc.eDl wfaich we never suspect of snj' liann ; which, if they were to be tried by this devotioir, would sooa shew us bow we have deceived ourselves.

Sasutrus is a pious, temperate, good man, t^markaUe for abundance of eicelleot qnabties. No one more con- stant at the service of the church, or whose heart' is more affected with il. His charity is so great, that he almost starves himself, to' be able to give greater alms t» the poor- Yet Susiirrus had a prodigious faitii^ along with these great virtues. >tf« bad a mighty inclination to hear and discover all the defects and infimutics of all sbout him. You was welcome (o tell him aby thing of any hoJy, provided that you did not do it in the style of an enemy. He never disUked an evil speaker, but t^ea his language was rough asd passionate. If you woafllfcut whisper any thing gently, though it was ever so bad in itself, Susurrus was ready to receive it. When be visits, yoii generally hear him relating how sorry he is tor the ilefecta and failiogs of such a neighbour. He is always letting you know how tender he is of the repotation of his neighbour i how loath to say that which he is force<l-



II, Google



DCVOtrr -AND -HOLT LIFE. Mf

tony; n>d faow^gMljbe w«nld codmoI it, ifitesuM be coaceated.

i||MRitTu3 had sucb a tender, eoinpas!>ioniile roanner of renRng; (hin^ the most prejudicial to his nei^bour, Qiat be V/BU seemed, both to himseti' and others, to be eier- ciMOg a chmtiaa charity, at the lame time that he was indQ^io^ a whiapering;, «ril speaking: temper.

Samrrua once whirred to* parttcnlar friend in great secre^, Hoinetbin^ too bad to be ipok« of publicly. He ended with layiny, how ghtd htt was, that it had not yet took wind, and that he hod some hopes it mi^ht not be tnie,Jhois*theTOipie»(Hw wertstroog. Hia friend made bim fliis re^ : yon say,- Sumirrast that y^n ara yhwJ it bus not yet taken wind : and that yon have some hop^ it nay not prore true. Oo hmae therefore to yoar clos- et, and pray tefhtd for this man, in such a manaer, and witfa^icfa eamestmn asyoa would pray fot youtielf oM the^e occanoB.

Beseech God to iMerpose in his forour, to safe him ftdm i^se acCHseis, asij bring all those- toshame, who. by upoharitnble whiflpers and secret stories, wutmd hits Kfce those tbat stidi- m tbe dark. And when yon have mad^Ui prayer, then you may, if yoo please, go (eH the Hbe secret to lome otber triend, that yoa hare Wd to me.

Sosumis was esceedingly affected with this rebuke, and felt the force of it upon his conscience in as lively' a mamter, as if he had seen the books opened at the day of ^tlgment All other arguments might have been resisted ; but it was impossible for Susurros either to re- ject, or to follow this advice, without being equally self- ^ condemned in the highest degree. From that time to this, he has pooatanlly used himself to this method of in- ter||feioa ; and his heart is so entirely changed by it, that he jjip now ao more privately whisper any thing to the -prejudice of another, then he can openly pray to God to do people hurt. Whisperings ani evil speakii^ now ^ hurt his ears, like oaths -and curses ; and he bas af^int- cd one day in the week, to be a day of penance as long as be lives, to humble himself before God, in the sorrow' tal confession of his former gailt. It may well be <Pon- ^ered bow a man of so much piat^ as Snaumu could



■t A ffSIOin CAbL TO A

be w Iftnf deceived in bunwli^«H to lire -in sudb t abite of scandal and evil speaking, witbont Biiepectt^ himself to be g^lt; o'fit. Bat it was4be tenderoeae andagei^ ing cempMHion with which be>heud md rebted-^nij ihing, that deceived both binuelf and otbecs. Tbim^nM k falseneta of heart, which was only to be {My flucow' ered, bj the Irne cbarity of interceesioB. And if penple tj'virtae, who think httle Jiwm of theMselres, ae Snear- rtH did, were often to Ipy th«ir spirit by «<>ch aajfater- -fewioa, they wonld often &td IbenMeWes to be such,«s \hey learit of all suspected.

I have laid before yon, the many nnd-gTeat adranta- ges of intercewimi. You have seen what a (KviDC diead* ship it mnal needs be^ amongst Christians ; bow dear it would render alt relations and aeighbpnra to boe another ; bow it leads to make cleF^ymen, masten, and parents, ^emplary Mid perfect in bU the dntiea of their at^ios; how certainly it destroys all CDvy, spite,. and ill nnared passions i how speedily it rec<Hidlea all diflerencee, and ^ ,wilb what a piercing Ught it discovejrs to a man the tra» state of his heart

Theie considerations will, I hope, posuade you to make such intercessions as is proper for your «' Boostant, chi«f matlei ofyonr devotioa at 4' '



CHAP. XXH.

fficOQinieiKliii)> deTotion at three o'clock, caned in Sf riptore tbe ninth hour of the day. The subject of pITjer af this hoot ii ' Te«igiiatioii to the divine pleajure. The natiae and dntj of. •oDfotniitj to the will of Ood in all ooi action* and de&Mb

1 HAVE recommended certain subjects to be mad« dte fixed and chief matter of yonr devotions, at all the hoars of prayer that have been already considered. A* thanksgiving, and oblation of youiself to God, at yopr first prayers in the morning ; at nine, the great virtue of Christian btimibty is to bethe chiefpart of your petitions; at twelve, you aire called vipim topray for all thegiace>



\



DEVOUT ATTO HOLT UEE. M

•fiuiran^ love, tmd to-xaiseit in yoar heart by ancb Ifeneral and particular intercessions, as your own stale^ an4||^l3tioD to other pe«ple,«eem more particukriy to reqK« ofyou. At tkis hour of the afternoon, yon am defied to coqsider the neeessity of resignation ^h1 oou' fonnity to the will of God, and to make this graat virtue the principnl matter of your prayers.

There is nothing wise, or holy, or just, but the gfesA will-ilCGod. This is siricUy true in the most ri^id seose^ an to Bay, that notbuig is infioite and eternal but Ood. Jio beiogs, therefore, nbether in bsKven or oa earth, cad Iw Wjf^, or holy, or just, but so ftr as they conform te ttus#llrt)f #ji]. k tS'GODformity to this mil, that ^e» Yirtue and {lerfeclien lo the highest eervices of angels ■& faearea; and it is coaformity to the same will that mike» tllB ordiuaiy actions of men on earth become nt^acceplk- ^^ttS^'*^ unto God. «.

'VSe whole satiire of virtne consists in conforming^ and the whole nature of rice in declining from the will of Qod. Atl'Ood's creatures -are created to foltil hia^ will; the eun aod moon obey his will, by the necessity of their nature : aogefe confonn to his will by fh« per- feiclilMf their nature. If therefore yoa shonld shew, yeuraelrtiot to be a rebel and apostate from the order of the creation, you must act like being* both absve ani> btelow you ; it most be the great desire of your soul, that God's will may be done by you on earth, as it is done ii) heaven. It must be the settled pur^ese and intentioD of y^CM^enrt, to #iirno&ing, desi^ nothing, do noth- ing, but so far as Jflu have reason to hehere, that it ia the will of God, that youshonld so desire, design, and do. It i* as just ond necessary tO lire in this slate of heart, to thiok thus of God and yourself, as to think that yo^Eave aay dependadce upon him. And it is as great a raVellioD against God, to think tlitit your will may ever diSer from his, as to thiok that you have not received the power of willing from him. Too are therefore to coo- | tider yourself as a being, that has no other business in ^e world, but to be that whieb God requires you to be ; to have no tempers, no rules of your own, to seek no self-deMgn» or self-ends, but to fill -some place, and act •OToe part in strict conforaity, and thaaktiirrerignatioDi



' Sur ± SEKtaOB CALL TO A

In tkt divine pleunire. To thiiA (fast yo.n are your amif or at yoar owa ditpotal, is as absurd- m to think that yoQ create^ and can preserve youneir. It is bI plain;jnid neceasnry a first principle, to beliere jott are thns God's, that you thni beloi^ to him, and arR to act and Mfer all in a thuikfa) resignation to his pleasure, as to beHeTe^ that in him yon lire, and move, and have your beiBf^.

Resignation to the divine will, signifies a cheerful ap- probation and thankful acceptance of every tbia|' that comes from Ood. It Is not enough patient^ to submit, but we DioA tbonkfolly receive, and foliy approve of every fhing, that by the order of OodV providence hap- pens to us. For there is no reason why We sbonii be patient, but what is as good and strong a reason why wa ■faomU be llian^ful. if we were under the hands of ■ wiae aod good physician, who could not mistake, or do My thing to na, bnt what certainly lended to oar .bene- fit ; it would not be enough to be patient, and abstain from murmaring against such a physic^nn ; but it would be asgreal a breach of duty and gratitude lo him, not to be pleased and tbankM for what he did, as it woald be to RiArmur at him. Now this Is our true etnte with relation to God ; we cannot be said so much aa-<|t be- lieve in hiai, unless we believe him to be of infinite wis- dom. Every argument therefore for patience under bto disposal of us, is OS stMng an ai^nment for approbatirfa and thankfuhesB for every thing that he does lo us. Am) there needs no more to dispose us to this gratitude to- wards Ood,'than a full beUef in him ftiat he is '|hia Be- iag of iafinite wisdom, love, and goodness. Do bat as- sent to IIhb truth, in the same manner as yon assenl to things of which you have no doubt, and then you vrill cheerfully approve of every thing thai God has already approved for you. ' For as you cannot possibfy be pleued with &e behaviour of any person towards you, buW>e- cause it is for your good, is wise ih-itself, and the effect of his love and goodness towards you ; so when yon are satisfied that God does oot only do that which is wise, and good, and kind, but that which is the effect of an infinite wisdom and love in the care of you ; it will be as necessary, whilst you have this fidth, to be Aankfnl W^ be pleuQd with every thmg which God chooses fop



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. Sll

Su u to wisb your own' hoppioeap. Whe&erer therff- re you liad younelf diiposed to uneasiness, ortAur- mtttipir Bt any thing thxt^is the efiect of God'i providcDce oreFyou, yoa must look upon yovysetf as desyiog' either tbe wiadom or goodness of Go4 For every complaint ne^eMarily sopposee tbia. You wonU never complaia of your neighbour, but that you suppose that ^ou can show «itber his univise^ unjust, or uokidd behaviour tonarda you. .'Now every murmuring, impatient reflection under 4be providence of Godf isths same accusation oi God. A complaint always supposes ill usage. ,

. Hence also you may aon the great necessity and piety W this'ttititakAil it&te of heart, l^cause the want of itfai- plies an aocosation of God's rf^i, either of wisdom, or goodness, m bis duiposal of ua. It is not therefore any jgj|; h decree of pe^lactioo, founded in ajiy uncommwi NKety of ibinking, or reflned notions, but a plain principle Quoded in tlus plniu belief, tliat God is a being of infioila ^wisdom aod goodness. Now tbis resignation to tbe divine will, may be considered in two respects ; Fintl, As it eig- Itibes a thankful approbation of God^s general providence i>ver the world : Secondly, As it signibes a tbankful ac- ^tetaKe of his particular providence over us.

TlSi Eyery man is by the law of bia creation, by tli« £ret article of his creed, obliged to consent to, and ac- knowledge tbe wisdom and goodness of God, in his gen- eral providence over the n^iole world. He is to be- lieve that it 13 tbe efiet;! of God'!> great wisdom and good- ness, that tbe world itself was formed at such a particular time, and in sucb a manner, TIfet tbe general order of nature, the whole frame of things, is contrived and form- ed in the best monoer. He is to believe that God'i providence over states and kingdoms, times and seaattis, is all for tbe best. That the revolutions of state, Tod changes of ompire, Uie nse and fall of monarchies, per- secutions, wars, famines, and plagues, are all permitted, and conducted by GodV providence, to tbe general good of nian in tbis state of trial. A good man is to bebeve all tbis, with the same fulness of assent, as he believes that God is in every place, though he neither sees, nor ctn comprehend tbe manner of bis presence. This i| %•



n;Goog\c



»t A naUOTTS CALL TO A

noUe nug^AceBce of tkoi^t, a trne T«ligM« grMloess of DHiul, lo b« (has afiected with Ood'e g«Deral pTO*i- denee, adouring, Mid magDifTii^lus wndofu in all UtJBigB ; nerer mamrarin^ at the coorae of tbe norM, or the state of thing*, but lookieg npon ad nrowid, at heaven and eartfa, as a pteaiwd spectator; and adoriag^ that mvis^rfe hand, which givet laws to all motkxu, and overmles ail eveDts to ends saitable to tbe highest wisdom mid good- ness. *

It is very comnMin for people to allow theBuelves great liberty in Goding faalt with such tbiogs, m have only God for their cause. E^ery-one thinks he Qiyj^flMf wiy, what a wretckcd, abominable climate lie nT<!^4£. Thianan is frequently tetlii^'you, what a ihsmal, curs' cd day it is, and what intolerable seaaons we hare. Ad- stber tiiinks he baa very little to thaiA God for, J^ it is hardly worth his while to -liTe in a world so ffV^ cbaoges and rerolnboos. But these are tempers of gr«al impiety, and shew that relq^ion has not yet its Mat la tke heart of those who have them. It eoonds indeed much better to murmur at the course of tbe world, or the state of thing*, than to murmar at Providence : lo complain of the seasons and weather, than to cotB^Hm^if Ood ; but if these have no other cause but God ao^'liis providence, it ia a poor distinction to say, that you are only angry at the things, but not at the cause aad director of them.

Hew sacred the wliole frame of the world is, bow all things are to be considered as God's, tmd referred to him, is fully taught by our Blessed Lord~in the case of oathe : Bvt I tag vulo yfm. Swear nol at all ; nettAni by heaetn, for it u God'i throne ; nor by tke earth, for it it hisfoot- rtqfl ; neither bj/ Jenaalem, for it u tke cih/ of the great King ; neither »halt thou trtoear by iky head, beamse thou eanst not make one hair mhke or black. Matt. v. 37. -That is, because the whiteness or blackness of thy hair is not Ibtne, but God's.

Here you see all things in the whole order of nature, from the highest beaf ens to the smallest hair, are alwaya to be considered, not separately as they are in themselvei, • but as in some relatioD to God. And if this be good rea- •pning, thou shalt not swear by the earth, a city, or thy



DEVOUT iND HOLT MFC 31»

Jkair, liecause theie things are-God't, and in a cMtain KituDer belong to him ; is it not exactly the same mVoo- ing to say, thou shall n« murmur at the seasons of the «artb, the states of cities, and tha change of times, ba- cau^ alllhese things are in the hands of God, have him £>r their author, are directed and governed by him, to Bach ends, as are most suitaUe to his wise providence ?

If you think you can murmur at the stale of thingfl witliwil raarmurmg at Provideoce, or complain of sea- sons without complaining of God; hear what our blessed Lord says farther upon oaths ; Whoso shtUI n»ear by tk« ^Itar, tmeareth h/ it, and by ail things thtreoa : and ixihoM "^^tlt-'mwr by A^Jknple, smeaxgi-0 Mm mAo the^th tlierdn : and kt who aluUl rwea^iy heaven, nvearetlLiby Ikt throne iifGod, and by kirn ■asho iitceth thereon. Matt, xxiii, ^0 . Noiv does not this Scripture plainly oblige us to IRtowi^ after this manner : Whoso murmurs at the course of the world, murmurs at God who governs the course of the world. Whoso repines at settsons and weather, and speaks impatiently of times and events, repines and speaketh impatientljr of God, who is the sole Lord and Governor of times, seasons, and events. As therefore v^bef we think of God himself, we are to have noaenti- itt^fs but of praise and thanksgiving ; so when we look .at those things which are under the direction of God, -and governed by his Providence, we are to receive them wiUi the same tempers of praiae and gratitude. And though we are not to think all things right, and ju<it, and bwfulj which the providence of God permits ; for thea nothing coulii be unjust, because nothing is .without hia permission ; yet we must adore God iu the greatest pub- lie calamities, the most grievous persecutions, as things that are suiTered by God, like plagues and famines^br ends suitable to his wisdom and glory in the goveminlnt 4f the world.

There is nothing more tuitable to the piety of a rea- sonable creature, or the spirit of a Christian, tlian thus to approve, admire, and glorify God in alt the acts of his general providence : considering the whole world as his particular family, and all events as directed by his wi»- flom.

Every one seem* to consent to this, u an undauahle .87



314 A aSRIOUS CALL TO k

trott^ That all Awg* mM be at God plMUi ; and is Wt tbM eaough to dmIk every maD pleas^ with theni hin- Mlf? And bow can s man be a pATtah complstiner of an; thing that ii the effect if providence bat by dewing; that hiaown «elf-wi)l and •elf-wisdota is of more weight with bim, than the will and wisdom of G>kI 1 And what cas nligion be taid to have done for a man, whose heart is in (bis stale.

For if he cannot thank and praise God, as well ie ca- lamities and snSeringB, as in prosperity and happiness, be is as far from the piety of a Christian, aa he who onlj loves those who love tiim, is from the cbarify of a Chria- tiam For to thank Upd cmly for «uch>(litags bT^ n% " is no nore a proper act of piety, than to believe only what yon see, is an act of faith.

Resignation and thank^iving to God are only acta o^ piety, when they are acta.of faith, ^oat, and confideifin in the divine goodness. The faith of Abraham ivas an act of tme pi^ty, because it stopped at no diSGculties, . was not altered or lessened by any human appearances. It tirsbof alt carried him against all shew of happiness, from bis own kindred and coontry, into a sdange land, not knowing whither be went. It afterwards made turn '

Xist ail appearance of niiturc, when his body wa* ddbf he vat about a hundred yeart old, d&peod Upon the promise of God, being fully pertuaded that vohai God hoi promUtd, \e not abl» to perform. It was this same faith, that against so many pleas of nature, so many appear- ances of rensoo, prevailed upon bim to offer t^ liaof

meeountii^ that God wot id>te la raite Aim vp from the dead. Heb. xi. 17, 19. Now tbis faith is the true pattern of Christian rcslgnaUon to the divine pleasure ; you are to



tba^ and praise God, not only for things agreeable to

Joii^bat have the appearance of happiness and comfort ; ut when you are, like Abraham, called from all appear-



ance of comfort to be a pilgrim in a strange land, to part with an only son ; being as fnUy persuaded of the dirina goodness in all things thnt happen to you, as Abraham, was of the divine promise, when there was the least ap^ pearance of its being perfoftned.

'This is true Christian resignation to God, which re- .foires M more, to the support of it} tbw sucb ^ £ ^in ■4'



C4iz=.JnCoOglc



DEVtfUT AND HOLY LIFE. -316

euraace of the goodaeaa of Ood, as Abraham had of hi* Veracity. And if yaa aak yourseli^ what g;reater leason Abnihaai had to depend upon the divine veracity, than yoa have to depend upon the dhine goodness, you will find that none can be given. You cannot therefore look upoa this aa ao qnncceaaary, high pitch of pvfection, flince the want of it ibplies the want net of aay high notions, but of a plain and ordinary faith in the most cer- tain doctrines both of natural and revealed religion.

Tbus much concerning resignation to the divine will, aa it signifi«9~ a thtiokful approbation of God's general providence ; it is now 4o be considered, as it signifies a thankful acceptance of Qod's particulaF provideccs over us.

Every man is-to consider himself as a particular object of GoiTb providence; under tbtsame care and protecUon of God, aa if the world had been made for him alone. It is no>t by chance that any man is born at such a time^ of such parents, and in such pla&e and condition. It it as certain, that every soul comes into the body at such a .time, and in such circumstances, by the express design- ment of God, according to some parposee othis will, and for some particular ends ; this is as certain, as that it n by the express designment of God, that some beings are angels, and others men. It is as much by the couoael and eternal purpose of God, that jou should be bom in your particular state, and that Isaac should be the son of Abraham, as that Gabriel should be an angel^ and baac a man. The Scripture assures us, ^at it was by divine appointment, that our blessed Saviour was bora at Bethlehem, and at such a time. Now although it waa I owing to the dignity of his person and the great import- ance of his birth, that thus much of the divine counsel was declared to.the world coaceming the time and man- ner of it ; yet we are as sure from the same Scriptures, that the time and manner of every man's coming into the world, is according to some eternal purposes and di- rection of divine providence, and in such time and place, and circumstances, as are directed and governed by God for particular ends of his wisdom and goodness. Tbia we are oi certain of from plain revelation, as we



ii,.=.jnGoogk'



Sl# i. E£RIOUS CALL TO i.

ten be of nejr Aing. For if m are told, diat ao( a mM^ row Jhittlk to the grcntnd iiiittuna our heavenly Fcuher ; CHD any thing more Btrangly teadi us, that moch greater beiogB, Bach as human eoala, come not into Ihe world without the care and direction of our heavealy Father 7 Ifit it aaid, Vie very hair* of yotir head art all rtmnbered, i» it not to teactt a«, that oothii^, not the snnliest thii^ iniit^nable, happen to im by chance ? But if the smallest thin^ we can conceive, are declared to he under the di- rine direction, need we, Or can we be more plainly taught, tiiat the greatest things of life, such as the manner of •iir coming into (he world, our parents, the time, and oth- er drcumstances of our birth and condition, are all aov •ording to the eternal purposes, direction and appointment of divine providence 1

When the disciples ptt this qneation to otir blessed Lord, cODcemin^ the blind man, saying, Mtater, ■mho cM ji'n, thii nutn, or hit parenti, that he vat bora blind f tie that was the eleniat wisdom <^ God made this answer, ' JVeither hath tkit man tinned, nor hit partnu ; but tha\ Ae vxirkt of God thoald be made Tnanijitt in kim. Jotm ix. 2, 3. Plainly declaring, that the particular circniE- •tances of every man's birth, the body that he receives, and the conditicm and state of hfe, into which he is bom, are appointed by a secret providence, which directs all things to their particular times and seasons, and manner •f eiti^teoce, tluit the wisdom and worics of Ood may be made manifest in them all. As therefore it is thus cer- tain, that^e are what we are, as to birth, time, and cod> ditioQ of enteiing into the world ; since ^1 that is parti- cular in our state, is the effect of God^s partionlar prorU dence over us, and intended for some particular ends bodt of Us glory, and our own hapfMness, we are, by the freatest obligations of gratitude called upon to confom and resign on r will to the will of God in all these re- ■pecta; thankfully approving and accepting every thin|* toat is particular in our state. Praising and glori^ng his name for our birth of such parents, and in such cir- comstances of state and condition j being fully assured, Htat it was for some reasons of infinite wisdom and good- ness, that we were so born into sucb particular states of KTe. U the man aibovementioned, was boru bliod, tha*-



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIFS. 311

the work or God might be manifeBted in bim, bad he not great reason to praise God, for appointing him in such K partictUar manner, to be the iaslnimeot of his glory f And if-one person is born bere, and another there ; if oae falls Aiongst riches, and another into poverty; if one receires his flesh and blood from these parents, and another from those, for as particular ends, as the man was born blind ; have not all people the greatest reason to bless God, and to be thankful for their particular state and condition, becanse all that is particular in it, is as directly intended for the glory of God, and their own ~ good, as the particalar blindness of that man, who was so bom, that the vrorks of God might be manifested in him t How noble an idea does this give us of the divine om- niscience presiding over the whole world, and- governing roch a long chain and combination of seeming accidents and chances, to the common and particular advantages of all beings? So that all peifons, in such a wondeml variety of causes, accidents and events, should all fall into such particalar states, as were foreseen, and fore- ordained to their best advant^e, and so as to be most Mrviceable to the wise and glorious ends of God's gor- eroment of all the world.

Had yon been any thing else tiuui what yoa are, yoa had, all things considered, been less wisely provided for than yon are now ; you had wanted some circumstances and conditions, that are best fitted \o make you happy yonrself, and serviceable to tbe glory of God. Could yo« ■ee all that which God sees, all that happy ch^n of caus- es and motives which are to move and invite you to a right course of life, you would see something to mt^e yoa Uke that state you are in, as fittor for yon (ban any other. — But as yon cannot see this, so it is here that yonr Chris- tian faith and trust in God, is to exercise itself, and ren- der yon as grateful and tbankftil for the happioesi of your state, as if you saw every thing that contributes to it with your own eyes. But now if this is tbe case of every man in tbe world, thus blessed with some particu' lar state that is most coaveaient for him, how reasonable is it for every man to will that which God has already willed for himT And by a pious faith and trust in the Avioe goodness, thankfollf adore and magni^ that - *J»



4U A SERIOUS CALL TO A

irise proridence, which he iisore has made the bart choice Tor him of those tUogs, which be could not chooM for himself.

Every aaea8iDe«i''at our own stale, is (buoded TqKu compariD^ it with that of other people. Wbtkb is jiili u imreasoncfale, as if a man in a dropsy should be ao^y at tho«e that prescribe different thii^ to him, from those .which are pr«gcrihed to people in health. For all the different states of life are tike the difierent itates of dis- eases ; what is a remedy to one men in bis state, may be ' poisoD to aoother. So that to raunnor because you are not as some othen are, is as if a mao in one disease shosld mor^ mar that he is not treated Uke him that is in another. Whereas if be was to have his will, he would be killed by that, which will proTe the care of another. U is josC thus IB the Tarious condidoas ^ life ; if yeu give yourself np to naeasisess, or complain at any thing in yoar stat^ you may, for aoghl yoa know, be so m^rateful to God, as to murmur at that very thing, which is tc^prove the eaaseofyoursalrati^. Had you it in your power toget that which yoa tliink is so grievous to want^ it luight perhaps be that very thing, whidi of all ethers would mo»t expose you to eternal danwatioo. So that whether we consider the infinite goodness of God, that cannot ehooM amiss for as, or our own great ignorance of what is most advantageous to us, there caa be nothing so rei^ tonable and pious, as to have no nil! but that of God'% and desire Dothiog &r oursetveB, in our persons, o<A state, ami conditirai, but that which the good providence •f God appoints us. Farther, as the good providence of God thus introduces us late the world, into sucb states and conditions of life, as are most convenient for in, so the same onen'iiig wisdom orders all events, and duf^sio the whole course of our lives, iasucba inai»- ner, as to render them the fittest means to exercise and improve our virtue. Nothing hurts us, nothing destroy <us, hot the ill use of that UBerty, with which God h9 ADlrusted us.

We are sure that Dolhing happens to us by chancy «s that the world itself was not made by chanee i we ars f» certain tbnt all things happen and work together f<l|' -f^ jcoo^, as that God }* goodn^ itself. So that amaft



DEVOUT AND HOLY UFE. 31»

h»$ as mach reason towUl «rery Ihiog that happens to him, because Goil wills it, as to think that is wisest, which is directed by infinite wisdom. This is not cheat- ine or soothing ourselves into anj false content, or im- ' . agioary happiness ; but is a sati^action grosnded upon as great a certainty, as the being «nd attribntes of God. For if we are right in believing God to act over ns with indnite wisdom and goodnesS) we cannot carry our no-^ tions, conformity and resignation to the divine will to* h^[b ; DOT can we ever t>e deceived, by thinkit^ that to be best for us, which God has broaght upon us. Fw the ftrovideoee of God is not toore eonceroeil in the govern-^ ment of night and day, and the variety of seasons, than in tbe common course ofevents, that seem most to depeiHl upon the mere wills of men. . So that it is as strictly right, to look upon all worldly accidents and changes, all the va> lious turns and alteratims in yonr own life, to be as traljf the e&cts of Divine ProvideDce, as -the rising and settii^ of the sun, or tbealteralions of the seasons ettheyear. A» you are therefore always to adore the wisdom of God in the direction of these dnngs, so it is tbe same reasonable ^oty always to HMgnify God, as an equal director of every thing that Jiappens to yoa in the course ofyeur own life. This holy reugaation and ct^ormily of your will to the will of God, being so modi the true slate of piety, I hope you will think it proper to maka this hour of prayer, a con- stant aeason of applyit^ to Goil for so great a gift. That by. thos constantly praying for it, your heart may be hab^ i^ially disposed towards it, and always in a state ofrea^- ness to look at every thing as God's, and to consider him in every thing ; that so every thing that befals you, ma;^ be "received in the spirit of piety, and.made a means of ezerdMng- some virtue.

There is nothing that so powerfully governs the hearty that so strongly , excites us to wise and reasonable ac- tions, as a true sense of God's presence.

But as we cannot see, or apprehend the essence ot God, so nothing will so constantly keep us undera hvely sense of the presence of God, as this holy resignatiep^ which altributes every thing to him, and receives every tiuag as iirom him.



,,;,lc



m



3« A SERIOUS CALL-TO A

CoaM wc Me a Butnde from God, he* wouU ««■

Aoaghta be affected with an holy awe and veneralioD of hia preKDce 1 But if we considen ever; thing u God*s dwn;, either hy urder or penniision, we shall ben be affected with commoD thii^ as they wonld be who aaw a miracle. For as there ta oolhii^ to affect jea in a iniracte,.b<it as it is the actioD of God, and bespeaju hit . presence, so when yon consider God as acting in all things, and alt erents, then all things will become TeneraMe to you, like miracles, and fill you with the same awful sec- limits of the divine presence. Now yon must not re- terve the exercise (^tbis pious temper, to any partjcular times or occasions, or fancy how resigned you wilt he to God, if snch or such trials ahoukl happen. For tlus ■■ amusing yourself with the notion or idea of resignation instead of the virtue itself. Do nnt therefore please yourself with thinking how piously you wonld act and ■nbaiit to God, in a plague, a famine, or persecution ; bul be intent upon the perfection of the present day ; and be assured, that the best way of shewing a true zaal, ii Id make little things the occasions of great piety.

Be^n therefore in the smallest malten, and most oi^ dinary occasims, and accustom your mind to the daily exercite of this piotis temper, in the lowest occurrences of life. And when a contempt, an affront, a tittle injuiy, loss, or disappoinlmeDl, or the smallest events of eveiy day, continually raise your mind to God in proper acts of resignation, then you may justly hope, that you sbaS be numbered amongst those that are resigned aud thanlt fdl to God in the greatest trials and afflictiwt.



I, Google



SSPfom AND HOLT UFSt



Of irening praj«r. Of the nature and nteessitj' of eiamiiMtiok. How we are to be particular in the conression of all our sin* Hoir we are to Sll our miedB with a jujt borrorand dmd «fd



I AM DOW come to six o'clodt in the ereiw^ which, according: to Ifae scripture accoonl, i« called the twelfth, or last hour of the daj. This is a tiiDe so proper for devotion, Ihnt I suppose BotliiDg need be said ' to recoDunend it as a seaMMi of prayer, lo all peopleftEtf profess anj regard to p.ety. At the labour and aetioD of ereiy state of life is generallj over at this boor, so this is the proper time for ereiy one to call himMlf to accOQDt, and review all bis behaviour, from tiie first ao tion of the day. The necessity of this examination, is foundcH) upon ttie necesaty of repentance. For il! it be necessary to repent of all our sins, if the goilt of unre* pented sins still contianes opon' ns, then it is necestaiy not only that our sins, but the particular dnnmsttncea and aggravations of them, be known and recollected, and brought to repentance. The scriptare saith, 1/ we eonr fen oiT «wf, he u faithjul a»d put to Jbrghe ta our jMU, and to eleante u$ from aiX VMri^tovtutu. 1 John i. 9. Which is as much as to say, that then only our nos are foi^ven, and we cleaascd from the guilt and «n- nghteousueSB of them, when they are thns confessed and repented of.

There seems therefore to be the greatest necessity, that all our daily actions be constantly observed, and brought to account, lest by a negligence, we load ourselves with the guilt of uorepented sins. This examination therefore of ourselves every evening, is not only to be constdered «i a commendable rale, and fit for a wise man to observe ; but as something that is as necessary as a daily conlession anj refenlaoce of oiirsi&sj becMse this daily repentaniw



SK i. SERIOUS CAtL TO A

h of Terj little rigmficancy, aitd loses all its chief bene- fit, uOleis it be ■ particnlar confesuon and repCDtance of the sins of that day. TliiB examination is necessary to repentance in tbe same manner as time is necessaiy ; yoa cannot repent or express your sorrow, unless yon allow aome time for it ; nor can yon repent, but so far as you knon what it is that yoa are repenting of. So that when it is said, that it is necessary to examine and call your actions to account ; it is only saying', that it is neces- ury lo kpow what, and how many things you ar« to re- pent of.

Yon perhaps hsTe hitherto only used yourwlf to coD> feas yourself a sioaer in geaeni, and asked for^venesa in the gross, withoat any particnlar remembrance,' or cod- tritioo for tbe particular uns of that liay. And by this practice you are brot^ht to beLeve, that tbe same «hort, general form of confesuon of sin in general, is a gufficient * repeatanceforeTeiyday. Suppose another person should hold that a confession of our ains in general once at the end of every week was sufficient ; and that it was as well lo confess the-sins of seven days altc^ether, as to have a particular repentance at the end of every day.

1 know you sufficiently' see tbe unreasonableness end impietyof this opinion, and that yon think it is easy enoogh . to shew tbe dat^r and folly of it. J» Yet you cannot bring one a^ument against such an opinion, but what will be as good an argnment agaioat such a daily repentance, as does not call th^ particular sins of that day to a strict ac- count For as you can bring do express text of scripture against snch an opinioo, hot must take all your arguments friHn the nature of repeatance, and the necessity of a par- ticular repentance ^for particular sins; so every ar^pi- tnent of that kind must as fully pro*e the necessity of being very particular in our repentance of tbe sins of ev- ery day. Since noifaii^ can be justly said against leaving the sins of the whole week to be repented for in the gross, but what may as .justly be said against a daily repentance, which considers the ains of that day only la the gross.

Would you tell such a man, that a daily, confession was necessary to keep up an abhorrence of sin, that tbe mind would grow hardeiie^ atii seiuele^ ^Hk ff^^ ^-



DETOUT imdhoLt istt: sact

«ni nitbwd it ! And ii not this as good a reana for r»- qnirii^ tliat your ttaily repentance be very express and l>aiticalar for your daily sina ? For if confeasion is to raiae an abhorrence of sin, sorely that cwiJession which conaiders and laya open your particular sinfl, that brings tfaem to light with all their circumstuicea and aggniv^ tions, that reqaires a particular aorrowfal acknowledg- ment of every too, mat in a much greater degree fill the mind with an abhorrence of do, than that which only in one and the same form of words, confesses you only to be a siBner in general. For as this is nothing but what the greatest saint may jnttly say of himself, so the daily r»- peating«f only such a confeeBioUf ha> nothing in it to make yoii truly ashamed of yonr own way of life.

Again : Must you not tell such a man, that by leaving

himself to sucJi a weekly, general confession, he would

,be in great danger of fo^etting a great taaoy of his nns t

But ig there any sense or force in this ailment, unleM

Jou suppose that our sins are all to be remembered, and rought to a parliculdr repentance ? And is it not as ne- cessary, that our particular sins be not foi^tten, bat pai^ ticularly remembered in your daily, as in a repentance at any other time ? So that eyery arguoaent for a daily con* • fesaiOQ and repentaace, is the same ai^umenlfor the con- 'fession and repentance of the perlicular sios of every day. Because daily confession has no niher reason or necessi^, but our daily sins; and therefore ii nothing of what it should be, but so far as it is repentance and sorrowful Bcknowledgment ef the lina of the day.

Toi] wontd, I suppose, think yourself chai^eabte with ^reat j.rapiely, if you were to go to bed without confessing yourself te be a sinner^ and asking pardon of God; you would net think it sufficient that you did so yesterday, and yet if without any regard to the present day, you only repeat the same form of words that you used yester- day, the sin" of the present may justly be looked upon to have had no repentance. For if the sins of the present day require a new confession, it must be such a new confession as is proper lo itself. For it is the state and condition of every day, that is to determine the state and manner of your repentance in the evening ; otherwise. ^$ BatQc general form of words is rather an empty for*



ttH A SERIOim CALL TO A

nality, that ha tiie nppenmnce of a duty ; than mck « true (lerformaDCe of itt as is necessary to make it tndf useful to you.

Let il he snppMeil, thiti on a certain day you hare been IfVil^ of these bids ; th»t you Lure told a vain lie upon ^iirself, ascribing cornel hir^ fabely to yourself through priile ; that you Lnre been gmltj of detractioo, and in- duced yourself in some degree of ioteiitpcrance. Let it be supposeil, that on the next day you hare lived in a contnry manner ; that you have neglected no duty of devotion, and been the rest of the day innocently em- ployed in your proper business. Let it be supposed, tbat fin the evening of bolb these days yon only iise the same confession in general, considering it rather as a duty that is to be performeil every night, than as a repentance that is lo be suited to the particular slate of the day. Can it w.th any reaoon be said, that each day has had its proper . repentance 1 1» it not as good sense to say, there is no difference in the guilt of these days, as to say that there »eed be no different repeDtance at the end of them ? Or bow can each of them have its proper repentance, but by its liaving a repentance as lai^ and extensive, and par- ticular as the guilt of each day !

Again: Let it be supposed, that in that day, wbea you had been guilty of the three potoiious sins above- mentioned, that in your ereniog repentance, y«u had «nly culled one of them to mind : Is it not plain, that the other two are unrepented of, and that therefore their guilt still abides upon yon ? So that you are Uien in the State of him who commits himself to the night without the repentance for such a day, as had betrayed bim bto two such great sins. Now these are not seedless partic- ulars, or such Bcritpulous niceties, as a loan need not trouble himself about ; but are such plain truths, as es- sentially concern Ihe very life of piety. For if repeot- «Qce is necessary, it is fullas necessary that it might be rightly performed, and in due manner. And 1 have en- tered into all these particulars, only to shew you in the plainest manner, that examination, and a careful review of all the actions of the day, is not only to be looked upoa as a good rule, but as something as ueceasary as rt^^nt- «ice iliel£



ii,.=.Jnt'OOglc



t>BrOUT IHD HOLT UVE. Qtt

If ■ mil is to' account Ah: tiis expeoMa at ^ht, «aD it ve thought a aeedieas exactness in him, to take notice of every particular expense id the day? And if a man is to repent of his sins itt night, can it be thought too great a fitece of scrupulosity in him, to know and call to mitul what siDs he is to repent of 7

Fitrther : Though it shoulil be granted,, that a coufes- ilon in ^neral be a sufficient repentance for the end of such ilaj's, as have only the unavoklable frailties of our nature to lament; yet even this fully proves the ahooluts necessity of this self-eianaination : for without this esant- ination, who cm know that he has gone through any daj in this manner?

Again : An evening repentance, whicb thus brings all the actions of the day to account, is not only necessary to wipe off the guilt of nn, but is also the most certain way to amend and perfect our lives. For it is only such ■ repentance as this, that tonches the heart, awakens the conscieDce, and leaves a horror and deteatati<m of sia apon the mind. For instance : if it should happen that upon any particular eyening, all that yon could chargo joursell with should be this, viz. a happy, negligent per- formaoce of your devotiims, or loo much time spentin aa impertinent conversation i if the unreasonableness of these things were fully reflecle<l upon, and acknowledged ; if you was then to condemn yourself before God for them, and implore his pardon and assisting grace, what could be so likely a means to prevent your falling into the same faults the neit day? Or if you should fall into them again the next day, yet if they were again broi:^ht to the same esamination aad condemnation in the presence of God^ their happening again would be such a proof to yoo of your own'lblly and wenkne^ which cause such a pain and remorse in your mind, and till you with such. shame and confusion at younelf, as would in all probability make yoo exceedingly desirous of greater perfeclion.

Now in (he case of repealed sins, this would be the certain benefit that we should receive from this examina- tion and confession ; the mind would thereby be made humble, full of sorrow and deep compuoctiofl, aad ifj degrees forced into ameadmeot S8



c4iz=.JnGooglc



3U A SERIOira CALL TO A

WhereM a fonnal, geoenl coafeHdon, that U oa\j coa- ■dered rb an eTening doty, that overtook th« particular mistake* of the day, aod is the same nhether the daj be fpent ill or well, has little or no effect upon the mind ; a man may use such a daily confession, and yet go oa siaoin^ and coofening all his life, without aay remoree of miad, or tme desire of amendment. For if your own particular ■ins are left oat of your confenioo, your confessing of sin In general has no more effect upon your mind, than if yoa had only confesned that nil men in general are simiers.^ And there is nothiag in any cmifeesiui to shen that it ia jours, but lo far as it is a self-accusation, not of sin ia general, or such as is coalmen to all others, but of such particular sins, ai are your own proper shame and re- proach.

No other confession, but inch as thus discovers and accases your own particular guilt, can be an act of true sorrow or real concern at your own condititm. And a . . •onfession that is without this sorrow and companction of heart has nothing in it, either to atone for.pnst sins, or to produce in as any true reformation and amendment of Ife.

To proceed ; in order to fnake this exatiunation stiU farther beneficial, every man should oblige himself to a certain method in it As every man has something par- ticular in his nature, stronger inclinations to some vices than others, some infirmities that slick closer to him, and are harder to he conquered than othen ; and it is as easy fbr every man to know this of himself, asio know whom he Lkes, or dislikes : bo it is highly necessary, that these particularities of our natures and tempera should never escape a severe trial at our evening repentance ; I say a severe trial,bpcausenothiiigbutarignreus9eTerity against these natural tempers, is sufficient lo conquer them.

They are the right eyes, that are not to be spared ; but to be plucked out and cast from us. Far as they are the infirmities of nature, so they have the strength of nature, and must be treated with great opposition, or they will soon be too strong tor us. He therefore, who knowa himself moat of all subject to anger and passion, must be ▼9ry'«xa»t and constant m faji examinatioji ef tius temper



D5i,.=.JnGooglc



PEVOUT AND HOLY lAFE. SB

.«very erening. He must find out erery sUp that he haa made of that kind whether in thought, or word, or action; he must shame, aDd reproach, and accuse himself before God, for every thing that b said or done in obedience t« hie paaaioo. He must do more nllofv himself to forget tbe esamination of this temper, than to forget his nhole prayers.

Again ; If you find that vanity is your prevailing tem- per, tliat is alirays putling you upon the adornment of your person, and catching; e»ery thiBg that compUmenta or flatters your abilities, never spare or forget this temper in your evening ezamioation ; hut confess to God every vanity of thought, or word, of action, that you have been guilty of, aod put yourself to all the shame and confusioa for it that you can. In this manner should all people act wit-h regard to their chief frailty, 16 which their nature most inclines them. And though it shonldnot immediately l^do all that they would nish, yet by constant practice it would certainly in a short time produce its desired effect. ^a-rther: As all states and employments of life have their particular dangers and temptations, and espos* people more to some sins than others, so every man that Irishes his own improvement, should make it a necessary part of his evening esaminatioo, to consider how he has avoided, or fallen into such sins as are mo$t common to his state of life. For as our business and condition of ' Ufe has great power over us, eo nothing but such watch- fulness as this, can secure w from those temptations to which it daily exposes us. The poor man from his coin dition of life, is always in danger of repining nnd uneasi- ness ; the rich man is most exposed to sensuality and in- dulgence ; the tradesman to lying and unreasonable gains ; the scholar to pride and vanity ; so that in every state of hfe, a man should always in his examination of himself, have a strict eye upon those faults, to which hit state of life tnost of all exposes him.

Again ; As it is reasonable to suppose, that man has entered into, or at least proposed some method of holy living, and set bimsell rules to observe, as ore not common to other raljr known to himself; eo it should be a c



.33S A SEIUOUS CALL TO A

of his Dig;ht vecoUectioo, to eianiine how, and in wbM- decree he has obeerred them, and to reproach hitnself belore God, for every oeglect of Ihem. B; rules, 1 here mean, sach nles aa relate to the well-ordering of oar (■me, and the boMness of our common Ufe. Sucb nile« as prescribe a certain orderto all that we are to do, oar' bosioess, devotion, morlitications, readings, retirements, conversation, meals, refresh me DtB, sleep, and the like.— - l?ow as good rules relating' to all these things, are cer- tain means of great improvement, and euch m sU serioro Christians must need^ propose to tbemselvet, so they will hardly ever be observed to xay porpoie, tnilest they are made the constant subject of oar evening esamina- tion.

Lattlv, You are not to content joaneH with a luutjr geaernl review of the day, but yon must enter upon it with deliberation ; begin with the 6r8t action of the day, . and proceed step by step, through every particular matter ^J that you hare been conceived in, and so let no time, place or action be overlooked. An esamination ttus managed, will in a little time make yon as different from your»elf, aa a wise man is different from an idiot. It will give yon sucb a newness of mind, such a spirit <tf wisdom, and desire of perfecUon, na you was an entire stranger to before. Thus much concerning the eveoitig «iamination.

I proceed now to lay before yon such ctmsiderations, «s may fill your mind with a ju6l dread and hoiror of all sin, and help you to confess your own in the most pas- aiODate contrition, and sorrow of heart. Consider drst, how odious all sin is to Ood, what a m^hly baseness it is, and how abominable it renders sinners in the sight of Goil. That it is sin alone that makes the ^eat difference hetwist an angel, and the devil ; and that evety sinner is, so far as he sina, a friend of the devirs, and carrying on his work agnini^t God. That sin is a greater blemish and deiilement of the soul, than any filth or disease is a delilemeiit of the body. And to he content to (ive in sin, k a much greater baseness, than to desire to wallow in the mire, or love any bodily impurity.

Consider how you must abhor a creature that delight 9d in nothing but tilth and naatinest, that hated «ve^



DEVOOT AND HOLT ClFE. 3»

tdiDg thai was decent and clean ; aad let this teach yoii , to apprehend how odious that soul that delights in noth- ine bnt the impuritv of sio, most appear onto God. For all sins, whether of sensuaUty, pride, or falseness, or any other irreg'ular passion, are nothing ehe but the filth and impure disease of the rational soul. And all righteous- ness is nothing else but the purity, the decency, the beauty and perfection of that spirit, which is made in the image of God

Again ; Leam what horror you ought (o have for the guilt of sin, from the greatness of that atonement which has been made for it. God made the world by the brealh of bis mouth, by a word speaking ; but the redemption «f the wor^d has been a work of longer labour. How easily God can create beings, we leam from the first chapter of Genesis ; but how difficult it is for infinite ^^nercy to forgive sins, we learn' from that costly atoae- ^Ptneat, those bloody sacrifices, those pains and penances, those sicknesses and death, which all must be undergone, before the guilty sinner is fit to appear in the presence of 0«>d.-

R>nder these great truths : Tlmt the Son of God was forced to become man, to be partaker of all our infirmi- ties : to undergo a poor, painful, miserable, and con- tempbble life ; to be persecuted, hated, and at last nail- ed to a cross, that by such suSeriogit he might render God propitious to that nature in which he suffered. That aU the bloody sacrifices and atonemeuts of the Jewish law, were to represent the necessity of this great sacrifice, and the great displeasure God bore to sinners. That the world is still under the curse of sin, and certain marks of God's displeasure at it ; such as tamines, plagues, tempests^ aickness, diseases and death.

Consider that all the sons of Adam are to go through a painful, sickly life, denying' and mortifying their natural appetites, and crucifying the lust of the flesh, in order t* have a share in the atonement of our Saviour's deatlu That all their penances and self-denials, all their tear* and repentance, are only made available by that great iutercession,, which is still making for them at the right hand of God. ■ Consider these great iruthi ; that this mysterioas re-



330 A SERIOUS CALL TO A '

demption, all these sacrifices and gnfTerihgis, both of God and man, are odI; to remove the guilt ef sin ; and theo let this teach joit witb wbat tears and contrilioD, ;ou ought to pui^e yourself from it. After this general consideration of the guilt of sin, which has done so much * mischief to your nature, and exposed it to so great ptut- Isbment, and made it eo odious to God, that BOthing tesa than so great an atonement of the Son of God, and so |(Teat repentance of our own, can restore us to the ^rine iJiTOur.

Consider neil your own particular share io the gailt (rf'sin. And if j'Oii wonid know with what zeal you o^fat to repent yourself, consider how you wonld echort anoth^ er sinner to repentance ; and what repentance jod ainend- ment you would expect from him, whom yon jndged to be the greatest sinner in the world. Now this case every man may justly reckon to be his own. AHA yon may faii^^k ly look upon yourself to be the greatest sinner that yoa^^ know in the world.

For though you may know abundaDce of people to he guilty of some gross sins, with which you cannot ch^re yourself, yet you may justly condemn yourself ^a the greatest sinner that yon know. And that ibr these fol- lowing^ reasons.

First, because yon know more of the tfAlj of yonr own heart, than you do of other people's ; and canchai^ yourself with vanous sins, that you only know of your- self, and cannot be sure that other sinners are guilty of them. So that as you know more of the folly, the baseness, the pride, the deceitfulness and negligence of your own heart, than yon do of any one's else, so yon have just reason to consider yourself as the greatest sior ner that you know : Because you know more of the greatness of your own sine, than you do of other peo-

Secondly, The greatness of our guilt arises chiefly frooi the greatness of God's goodness towards us, from the par- ticular graces and blessings, the favours, the tights, siitd instructions that we have received from him.

Now as these graces and blessings, and the multitude of God's favours towards us, are the great ag^^vations of our SQM against Goi, n they are only known to onr-



DEVOUT AND HOLT LIPE. 3fl

■etres. And therefore every smner knows more of the B^ravation of his own ^ilt, than he does of other peo- ple''9 ; and consequently may justly look upon himself to b^ the greatest einner thRl he know«.

How good God hath been to other sinners, what light and instruction he hns vouchsRfed to ihetn ; whnt hlessings «)d graces they have received from him ; how often he fans touched their hearts with holy intipira lions, yon can- not tell. But all this yon know of yourself; therefore you know greater n^ravatioos of your own guilt, and ^re able to charge yonr*elf with greater ingratitude than you can charge upon other people.

And this is the reason, why the greatest saints have in all aires condemned ihemselres as the greatest sinners, because they knew some aggravations of their own sins, which they could not know of other people's. The right way therefore to till your heart with true contrition, and ' a deep sense of yoor own ains, is this : Ton are not to consider, Or compare the outward form or course of your life, with that of other people's, and then think yourself to be less sinful than- they, because the outward course of your life is less sinful than theirs. But in order to know your own guilt, you mnst consider your own par- ticular circumstances, yonr heallti, your sickness, your youth, or age, your particular calling, the happiness of your education, the degrees of light and instruction that you nave received, th» good men that you have convers- ed with, the admonitions that yon have had, the good books that you have read, the numberless multitude of divine blessings, graces, and favours, that you have re- ceived, the good motions of grace that you have resisted, the resolutions of amendment that' you have so often • broken, and the checks of conscience that you have dis- regarded. For it is from these circumstances, that every one ia to state the measure and greatness of his own guilt And as you know only these circumstances of your own sins, so you must necessarily know how to charge yourself with higher degrees of guilt, than you can charge upon other people. God Almighty knows greater sinners, it may be, than you are ; because he see* and knows the circumstances of all men's sins ; But your •wa heart, if it ia fulhfol to you, can diacover no guilt



Sai A SERIOUS CALL TO A

go ^eat u your own ; because it can ooly seft in JM tbose circumstances, on which a great pail of the giult of ■m is founderl. Kou may see sins in other people, that you cannot charge upon yourself; but then you know a number of circuntatances of your own guilt, thai yon can- not lay to* their chaise. And perhaps that person who appears at such a distance from yonr virtue, and so odiona in your eyes, would have been much better than you are, had he been altogether in your circumstances, and received all the same faroars and graces from God that you have.

This is a very humbling reflection, and very proper for those people to make, who measure their virtue, by comparing the outward course of their Uves with that of other people's. For, look at whom you will, howeyer; different from yoo io his way of life, yet yon can never know that he has resisted so much divine grace as yon have ; or that in all your circumstances, he woold not have been macb truer to his duly than you are. Now this is the reason why I desired you to consider, how you would exhort that man to confess, and bewul bis sins, whom you looked upon to be one of (he greatest sinners. Because if you will deal justly, you must fix the charge at home, ajid look no farther than yourself. For God has given no one any power of knowing the true greatness of any sins, but hia own ; and therefore the greatest sinner that every one knows is himself. You may easily see how siich an oue in the outward coune of his life breaks the laws of God ; but then yAu can never say, that had you been exactly in all his circumstances, that you should not have broken them more than he hai done. A serions and frequent reflection upon these things, will mightily tend to humble us in our own eyes, make us very apprehensive of the greatness of our own guilt, and very tender in censuring and condemning otb- er people, for who would dare to be severe against oth- er people, when, for aught he can tell, the severity of Qod may be more due to him, than to them? Who would exclaim against the guilt <^ others, when be con- aiders that he knows more of the greatness of his owa guilt, than be does of theirs ? How often you have re- KMBtod God's holy Spirit I how many motirea to gooduov



DEVOUT AND HOLY LIFE. 3*

^U haTe disre^rdcil ; how many particillnr Itiessii^ you have siDDed agaiasi ; bow maay g;ood resolatioos jou have broken ; hfllv many checks and admeoitionB of conscience you have stifled, you very well know: But bowoAen this has be^n the case of other sinners, yon koow not. And thereTore the greatest sinner that yoa know must be yourself.

Whenever, therefore, you are angry at sin or sionerB, whenever you read or think of God's indignation and wrath at wicked men, let this teach you to be the most severe in yonr censure, and moat humble and contrite in the acknowledgmenl and coofe^ion of your own sins, be-, cause you know of no sinner equal to yourself.

Lastly, to coQclude this chapter : Having thus exam- ined and confessed, your sins at tbi^ hour of the even- ing, you nuist allerwarde . look upon yourself, as still obliged to beUike yourself to prayer again just before yott go to bed. The subject that is most proper for your prayers at that time, is death. Let yoiu' prayers there- fore then be wholly upon it, reckoning up all the dan- gen, uncertainties, and terrors of death ; let them coo- tain every thing that can affect and awaken your mind inio just apprehensions of it, Let your petitions be all for right senttmentg of the approach and importance of death ; and beg of God, that your mind may be possessed with such a sense of its neHmees, that you may have it always in yoor tbotights, do every thing as in iight of it* and make every day, a day of preparation for it. Rep* reseat to your imagination, (hat your bed is your grave ; Viat all diings are ready for your interment ; that you are to have i^o more to do with this world ; and that il will be owing to God's great mercy, if you ever see th* light of the sun again, or have another day to add to your works of piety. And then commit yourself to sleep,^ as into the hands of God ; as one who is to have no more opportunities of doing good ; but is to wake amongst ^irits that are separate from the body, and waiting for '~ the judgment of the last great day.

Such a solemn resignation of youRelf into the hands of God every evening, and parting with all the world, aa if you were oeTer to see it any more, and all this iu the utence and dadcaen of tite nif ht, ii a practice that luU



AM ' A SERIODS CALL TO A

sooD hare exc«lleDt effects %tpoa ^osr spiritB. - For this time of the oig'fat is exceeding proper tor such prayera* smd meditatioDB ; and the likeness which sleep and dark- ness have to death, vrili cootrihute very much to make jour thoughts about it the more deep and affecting. So that i hope you will not let a time so prqpei for such prayers, be ever passed over without them.



I HAVE now finished what I intend«d in this Trea- tise. 1 have explained the nature of devotion, both as it signities a life devoted to Ood, and as it signifies a regular method of daily prayer. I have now only to add a word or two in recommendation of a life governed by thts spirit of devotion. For though it is as reasonable to suppose it the desire of all Chnstians to arrive at Chrift> tiao perfection, as to suppose, that all sick men desire to be restored to perfect health ; yet experience shews us, that nothing wants more to be pressed, repeated and fore- - ed upon minds, than the plainest rules of ChnStianity. Voluntary poverty, virginity, and devout retirement, have been here recommended, as tbbgs not necessary, yet highly beneficial to those who would make the way to perfection the most easy and certain. But Christian per- fection itself is lied to no particular form of life ; but i^ to be attained, thoagh not with the same ^ase, in every state of life. This has been fully asserled in another place; where it has been shewn that Christian perfec- tion calls no one (necessarily) to a cloister, bat to the ; full performance of those duties, which are necessary for all Christians, and common to all elates of life. Christ. Perfect, p. S. So that the whole of the matter is plainlj this: virginity, voluntary poverty, and such other re- straints of lawful thmgs, are not necessary to Christian per- fection; bot«re much to be commended in those, who choosethemas helps and means of a more sa^ and speedy arrival at it It ia only in this nuuioeri juulia tbu ■eoKi



DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. itt

tiut 1 woaM recommend an; particalarity of life; not as if perfection consiated in it, because of its great ten* dencj to produce and support tbe trae spirit of ChristJBB perfection. But the thing nhich is here pressed upon all ist a life of great and strict devotion ; nhich, I think, has been sufficiently shewn to be equallj' tbe duty and happiness of ail orders of men. Neither is there anj thing in any particular state of life, Ihut can be justly pleaded as a reason for any abatement of a devout spirit But becaose io this pohte age of ours, ne have so lired awsj ibe spirit of devotioB, that many seem afraid eren to be suspected of it, imagining great devotion to be 'great big*tiy ; that is founded in ignorance an<{ poor- ness of spirit, and that little, weak, and dejected minds, are generally tbe greatest proficients in it : it shall her« be fully shewn, that great devotion is the noblest temper of the greatest and noblest souls; and tbat they who think it receives any advantage from ignorance and poor- ness of spirit, are themselves not a little, but entirely ig^- uorant of the nature of devotion, the nature of God, aad fbe natgre of themselves,

People of tine parts and leaming, or of great Id«w1t edge in worldly matters, may perhaps tbink it hard to have their want of devotion chained upon their igno- r^ice. But if they will be content to be tried by reason and scripture, it may soon be made to appear, that a want of defotioD, wherever it is, either amongst the learned or unlearned, is founded in gross ignorance, and the gre;jtest blindness and insensibility that can happen to a jrational creature. And that devotion is so far from being tbe effect of a little and dejected mind, that it must and will be always highest in the most perfect natures. And first, who reckons it a sign of a poor, little miod, for a man to be full of reverence and duly to his parents, to bave tbe truest love and houoar for his friend, or to ex- cel to the highest instances of gratitude to his benefac- tor ? Are not these tempers in ibe highest degree in Ihe most exalted and perfect minds ? And yet what is high devotion, but the highest exercise of these tempers, of duty, reverence, love, honour, and gratitude to the ami- able, glorious parent, friend, and benefactor of all man- lUQd? is it a true greatness of mind, to reverence tb«



4M A SfSHOUS CALL TO A

anthorit; of yoMr purente, to few the Atplearare of ywv tricntl, to diead the reproaches ofyonr beitefiictor? and most DOt tfaia fear and dread, and reverence, be much more just and reasonably, and bonourable, wbep tbej are in the big^test degree towards God ? Now m the higbet these tempers are, the more tbej are esteemed amongst men, and are allowed to be so much the greater prooft of a true greatness of mind ; tio the liigher and greater these eame tempers are tonards God, so much the more do tfaey pr"Te the Dobtlily, excelltinse, and greatness of the naiud. So that so long as duly to parents,. love to friends, and gratitude to beuetactors, are thoogbt great and boDouralUe tempers ; devotion, which is nothing else but duty, loTe, and gratitude (o God, must have the bigb> est place amongst our highest virtues.

If a prince out of hi« mere goodness should send yon « pardon by one of bis slaves, would you think it a part of your duty to receive the slave with marks of love, esteem, and gratitude for bis great kindness, id bringing you so great a gift ; and at the same time think it a mean- aesB and poorness of spirit, to shew love, esteem, and gratitude to the prince, who of bis own goodness free- ly sent you the pardon ? And yet this would be as rea- -lotinble, as to suppose that love, esteem, honour, and grat- itude, are noble tempers, and instances of a great soul, when they are paid to our fellow-crealures ; but tb« effecU of a poor, ignorant, dejected mind, nbea tbey are j>aid to God.

Farlher; that part of devotion which expresses itself in sorrowful confession, and penitential tears of a br^ea and contrite heart, is very far from being a sign of a little and ignorant mind. For who does not acknowledge it an instance of an ingenuous, generous, and brave mind, to acknowledge a fault, and ask pardon for the offence t And are not the finest and most improved minds, the most remarkable for this escellent temper I Is it not also allowed, that the ingenuity and excellence of a man's spirit is much shewn when hia sorrow and ind^Tiatioa at himself rises in proportion to the folly of his crime, and the goodness and greatness of the person he has e£- fended ? Now if things are thus, then the greater any nau'a mind is, the more he knowi of God md fajBseli^



^ tXXatTT AHD XK>LT UPB. 3|V

tike iiMFe frill he be Apowd to proetrate fajmaelf bef«fe Qui ia all the humble acts and ezpressmns of repent- Hnce. And the greater the iugtjouity, the g^enerosity, jadgiaent, and penetration ol' his mind ii, the more will be exercise and iadalge a passionate, tender sense of God^s _ju3t diapleasure ; and the more he knotra of th« ^reatneK, the gxiodne^i, and perfeclion of the divine na- tare, the fuller of ^hame and confusion will be be at hie *trn aioa aod ingr»titude. And on the other hcmd, the more dull and tgoorant any soul is, the more base and Bngeoerooa it naturally is, the more senseless it ia of the goodness and purity tj^ Qod ; so much the more averse wilLit be to aU acts of bamble confession raadrepentaace. SevotioB therefo're is so far from being best suited to little ignorant minde, that a true elevation, of soul, ft Welysense of honour, it od great knonledge of God and, •urselTeSf are the greatest natural helps that our devo- tion bath.

. And on the other hand, it shall here be made to ap- pear by variety of argumooCs, that indevotion is founded ID the most escesBJve ignorance.

And, Firat^ Our blessed Lord, and his apostles, were' eminent instances of great and frequent devotion. Now if we will griuit, (as all Christians must granl) that tbeir great de'rotioo was founded in a true knowledge of the ■at ure of devotion, the nature of God, and the nature of man ; then it is plaiH, that all those that are insensible of the duty of devotion, are in this escessive state of ig- norance, tbey neither know God, nor themselves, noi* devotion. Fov if a right knowledge in thete three re- , spects, produces great devotion, as in the case of our Saviour and his apostles, thea a neglect'of devotion muat be chai^able upon ignorance.

Again ; How comes it that moat people have recourse to devotion, when' they are in sickiiesa, distress, or fear of death? Is it not because this state shews them more of the want of God, and their own weakness, then they perceive at other times 7. is it not because their infirm- ities, their approaching end conviDces them of some- thing, which they did not half perceive before ? If ow --"if devotion at these aeasoos, iitbe effect of a belter kgow-

ctvJuGooglc



CAIi TO A

le^K* of God, and ennelTes, tben (ke neglect ofderottn at Mlier timei, is always owing to great ignoraoce of God «id oanelTee.

Farther; As indeTotion is ignorance, so it is the mfiat dumefnl ignorance, and sach as ia to be charged nith .Ibe greatest foUj. Ttufl will fully appear to anj ona that Gonsiden, by what rnlea we are te judge of the ex- celleocf of any kaowle(%e, or the BhamefalneM of anj ignorance. Now knowledge itself noold be no excel* iMice, Dor ignorance any reproach to ns, but that wa ■re rational creatnres. Bnt if Ihis be true, then it fol- lews plainly, that that knowledge which is most railabie to our ratiooal nature, and which mo«t concents as, as ■■ch to know, is our highest, finest knowte^ ; and that ^inorance which relates to thit^ which, are most •ssenlial to na, aa rational creatures, and wiuch we are most concerned to know, is, of all other>, the most gnm bdJ shameful ignorance. If therefore there be any things ' that concern ui more than others, if there be any tniiha that are more to ns'than all others, he that has the fullest knonle^e of these ihiogs, that sees these truths in (he clearest, strongest light, hais of all others, as a rational creature, the clearest understanding, and the Etrengest parts. If therefore our relation to God, be oar greatest relatioD, if our adTancement in hie favour be our highest adTaacemeDt, he that has the highest notions of tfao excellence of this relation, he that mo«t strongly per- ceives the behest worth, and great vatue of holineaa *tind virtue, that Judges every thing little, when com- pared with it, proves himself to be master of the best, and most excellent knowled^. If a judge had fine ■kill in painting, architecture, and music, but at the same time hod gross and confused notions' of eqiii^, and poor, dull apprehensions of the value of justice, who would scruple to reckon him a poor ignorant judge t If a. bishop should be a man of great address and skill in the arts of preferment, and understanding how to raise and enrich his family in the world, but should have no taste or sense of the maxims and principles of tiia aaints and fathers of the church; if he did not conceive the holy nature, and great obligations of hia callii^, ^d ju4gt) it btttw t» t» fiu«fi«d tft the vrorldf tim t*



DEVOUT ASD HOLT UPB. W

lire idlj in pomp nijd eplendoar, who nouM flcrnple W charge such a bishop with w^int of nnderstandii^ ? If Ve do Dot judge, and pronounce nder thia manner, our reason and judgment are but empt; sounds. But now, if a judge is to be reckoned ignorant, if he does uot feel or perceive th^ value and worth of justice ; if a- bishop is to be looked upon as void of undentanding, if he is more experienced in other things, than in the eX' alted virtues of his apostolical calling; then all commoa Christians are to he looked upon aa more or less know- fng, according at they know more or less of those great things,^hiCh are the common and greatest concern of ell Ctiristians. If a gentleman should funcy that the . moon is no bigger than it appears to the eje, that it shineS with its own light, that at) the stars are only so many spots of light; ifatler reading books of astronomy, he Bhontd still continue in the eadie opinion, most people would think he had but k poor apprehension. But if the same person should think it belter to provide for a short life here, than to provide for a glorious eternity herea^ ter, that it was better to he nch than to be eminent In pi- ety, his ignorance and dullness would be too great to oe compared to any thing else.

There is no knowledge that deserves so much as the name of it, but that which we call judgment And that is the most clear and improved understanding, which judges best fff the value and worth of things; all ^e rest- is but the capacity of an animal, is but mere seeing ao^ bearing.

And there is "no excellence of any knowledge in us, till we eierciae our judgment, and judge well of the value and worth of things. If a man had eyes that could ape beyond tha stars, or pierce into the heart of the earth, but could sot see the things that were before him, or discern any thing that was serviceable lo him, we should reckon that he had hut a very bad sight, if aif other had ears that received sounds from the world in the , BiooD, but could hear nothing that was done upon earth, vie should look upon him to be as bad as deaf. In Ilka manner, if a man baa a memory that can retain a gre4t many things; if he has a wit that is sharp and acute in arfv U^icieDceS} or tiB inaciuatioD that can wander agre*^



i» A ErailOUS CALL TO A

Mf in fictions, bmt hu a diHI, ptmr apprehennoo of U( duty aad relatioa to God, of the .vahie of pietj, or the. worth of moral (irtue, he maj very jinti; be reckoned to have n bad underslHoding. He is bat like the oibd that can only cee and hear such Ihinga m are of bo benefit to him- Ai certaia therefore as piety, virtue, and eter- nal happiness are of the most concern to man, as ceitaio as the imoaortality of our nature, and rebtion to God, are. the most gtorions circumslanees of oar natare, so certain is it, that he who dwells most in contemptatioo of them, whose heart ie most affected with them, who sees fartbest into tb^n, who best comprehends f(^ value and excellency of ibetn, who judges all worldly attwa- ments lo he mere bubbles and shadows, in comparison of them, proves himself to have ijf all others the £nest underilanuing, and the stroi^eat ju^^^ment. And if w« do not rea«o{i aA^ this HianDer, or allow this method of reasoning, we have no argumAits to prove, that there js any each Ihinif aa a wise man, or n fool. For a man is proved to be a-natura),. ant because he wants any of his senses, or is incapable of every thtnE^, but because he has BO judgment, and is entirely ignorant (^ the worth and value of things ; he will perhaps choose a 6ne coat ratlter than a large estate. And as the essence of stupidity consists in the eatire Want of judgment, hi an ignoraDce of the value of things ; so on the other hand the essence ef wisdom and knowledge must con^iiHt in Ih^ excellency of our judgment, or in the knowledge of the worth and Value of things. This therefore is an undeniable proof that he who knows most of the value of the best things, who judges most rightly of the things which are of most concern to him, who had rnther have his soul in a state of Christian perfection, than the greatest share of worldly happiness, has the highest wisdom and is at aie farthest distance from men that are naturals, that any knowledge cao place him. On the other hand, he that can talk the learned languages, and repeat a great deal of history, but prefers the indulgence of his body to the purity and perfection of his soul, who is mor? concerned to get a name, or an estate here, than to livfe in eternal glory hereafter, is in the nearest state to that natural, who chooses a painted coat, rather than a burgft



DEVOtJT AND HOtT LlFEj W

estate. He is not oUed a natarat by men, tnit he mast api>ear to God, and faeavenly beii^, ag in a more exce»- ■ aire state of stupidity, and will sooner or later certainly appear so to himself.

But novr if this be undeniably plain, that we cannot BTOve a man to be a fool, tmt by shewing; that he has n« If tnowlei^e- of things that are good and eril to himself then it is andeniably plain that we cannot prove a man (o be wise, but by shewing that he has tbe fullest knowl- edge of thjt^ that are his greatest good, and his great- est eviL If, therefore, God be our greatest good ; if there i^n be no good but in his farour, nor any erii but in Aeparting from him, then it is plain, that he who judges it the best thing he-can do to plense God to the utmost of his power, who worships and adores him with all his heart and soul, who had rather have a pious mind than all the dignities and honours in the world, shews luma4M|D be in the highest state of hamacf wisdom.

TiJ^^oceed ; We know how our blessedLord acted in R human body ; it was Ai» meat and drmk to do the wiJJ o^ his Father who it in Aetraen. And if any number of heav- enly spirits were to leave their faabiutions in the light of God, and be for awhile united to human bodies, they would certainly tend towards God in all their actions, and be as heavenly as they could, id a state of QeA ani

They would certainly act in this manner, because they troiild know that God was the only good of all spirits ; and that whether they were in the body or out of tbe 1>ody, in heaven or on earth, they must have every de- ^ee of their greatness and happiness from God alone. All human spirits therefore, the more exalted they are, the more tiiey know their divine original, the nearer they come to heavenly spirits, by so much the more will they live to God in all their actions, and make their whole life astate of devotion. Devotion therefore is (he great- est sign of a great and noble genius, it supposes a soul in its highest state of knowledge ; and none but little and

ilinded minds, that are sunk into ignorance and vanity, ^e destitute of it.

If a hnman spirit Rhould imagine some mighty prince to be greater than God, we skould take it for a pver, iy-



CALL TO A

uoffHit crestare ; all people woirid aekeowle^^ such » imi^inktioQ to be the height 6C stupiditj. But ti thii sane bnman epirit ahouIJ think it better to be devoted l» some mighly prince, than to be devoted to God, wohU aot this atill be a greater proof of a poor, ignorant, and bliDded nature ? Yet Ihii is what all people d(), wha think an; thing better, greater, or wiser than a devout life. So that which way .soever we consider this saat- (%r, it plainly appears, that devotion k an ioRtaBCe of great judgment, of an elevated nature.; and the want of devotion is a certain proof «f the want of understandii^. The greatest spirits of the heatlien world, such aa Fy- Ihagoras, Socrates, Plato, E^etetue, Marcos, jRttovius, be. owed all their greatnesf to the spirit . of devotien. They were full of God ; their wisdom and deep conteio- plations, tended only to deliver men from the vanity of the worid, the slavery of bodily passions, that they might act as spirits that came from God, and were ^'^^^dfi re- turn to him. ^F^

Again ; To see the dignity and greatness of a devjoiit spirit, we need only compaie it with other tempers, that are chosen in the room of it. St. John tells us, that oii ia the world, (that is, all the tempers of a worldly life,) is Ike Itiat of thcJUih, tht Itat of the eyt, and the prute of life, i.et us tbereiore consider, what wisdom or escellency of mind there is required to qualify a m»n for these delights^ Let us suppose a man given up to the pleasures of the body, surely this can be no sign of a fine mind, or ao excellent spirit ; for if he has but the temper of an ani- mal, he is great enough for these enjoyments. Let us suppose him to be devoted to hoqours and splendours, to be fond of glitter and equipage; sow if this temper -re- quired any great parts or fine understanding to make a man capable of it, it would prove the worid to abound with great wits. Let us suppose bim to be in love with riches, and to be so eager in the pursuit of them, as never to think he has enough ; now this passion is So &r from supposing any excellent sense, or great undei^ standing, that blindness and folly are the best supports that it hath. Let us, lastly, suppose him in another UglA not singly devoted to any of these passions, but as it mostly happens, governed by all of them is theic turns j^



- DEVOUT AND HOLT UFE. 3«

doe* tbia Hhew n more exalted nature, Aan to speul bis days in the service »[aay one of them ? For to have a ta^e for these tbuigs, and to be devoted to them, is so &r from arguing any tolerable parts or understanding, that they are salted to the dullest, weakest minde, and re- ^re only a great deal of pride and folly to be greatly k admired. But now let libertines bring any such chaise as this if they can, against devotion. They may aa well endeavour to cbai^e light nith every thing that be- longs to darkness. Let them but grant that there is k God, and Providence, and then they have granted enough to justi/y Ifae wisdom, and support the hoaoiir of devo- tion. For if there is an intinitety wise and good Crea- tor, in whom we live, move, and have our being, vebose providence goveius all things in all places, surely it must ' be the highest act of our understanding to conceive ngh,tly of him; it jnust be the noblest instance of judg^• ment, the most eialted temper of our nature, to worship and adore thi? universal Providence, to conform to its 1, laws, to study its wisdom, and to live and act every [. where, as in the presence of. this infinitely good and I wise Creator. Now he that lives thus, lives in the spirit i, of defotitHi. And what can shew such great parts, and r,r MO fine an understanding, as to live in this temper? For (' if God is wisdom, surely he must be the wisest man in i' the world, who most c<Kiforaa8 to the wisdom of God, ., who best obeys his providence, who enters farthest into g his designs, aiH does all he can, that God's will may be done on earth, as it is done in heaven. A devout man 5 makes a true use of his Feason ; he sees through the t Vanity of the world, discovers the corruption of his na- .' tore, and the blindness of his passions. He lives by a a law which is not visible to vulgar eyes ; be enters into j Uie world of spirits ; he compares the greatest thmgs, \ sets etemi^ against time j and chooses rather to be for- ) ever great in the presence of God, when he dies, than r to have the greatest share of worldly pleasures whilst he . ' lives. He who is devout, is full of these great thoughts ; I , he lives upon these noble reileclions, and conducts bin). I q|U^ by rules and principles, which can only be appre- ;- beaded, admired and loved by reason. There is nothing I therefore that shews so great a genius, notbing that sa



fu A. SERiom CihL to X

niKfl m above wvigv i^rits, nolUiig' llutt so plain}; de< clares an heroic greatnesa of mfad, m great devotion^ Wben yon Happose a man to be a sunt, or all derotimi, you hare raised iiim as mnch above all other condilioii* rflife, as a philosopher is above an aaimal.

Lastly, conrage and bravery are wonls-of a great BOwtd, and seem to signify a heroic spirit : but yet ba< 0- mility, trhicb seems to be the lowest, meuiest part of devotioD, is a more certain argument of a noble and courageous mind. For hiimili^ contends with greater enemies, is more cooatantly engaged, moro vioJentljr assaulted, bears more, suffers more, and reqinrea greater eoarage to support itself^ tbnn any instances i^ ivorldljr bravery. A man who dares be poor and contemptible in the eyes of the world, to approve himself toGod ; who resists and rejects all hnman glory, who opposes the clamour of his passions, who meekly puts op all injuries and wrongs, and dares itay for bis rewards till the invhd- tile band of God gives to every <»e their proper place% endures a much greater Mai, and exerts a nobler forti- tude, than he who is bold and daring in the fire of battle. For the boldness of a soldier, if he is a strwger to the spirit of devotion, is rather weakness than fortitude ; it is at best but mad passion, and heated spirits, and has no more true valour in it than the fury of a tiger. For ai we cannot lifl op a hand, or ^r a foot, but by a power that ia lent us from God, so bold actions that are not directed by the lawa of Ood, or so many executions of hia wilt, are no more true bravf 17, (ban sedate malice is Christian patience.

Reason is our universal law, that obl^s us in all pla< ttes, and at all times ; and no actions have any honour, but ■o far as they are instances of our obedience to reason. And it is as base and cowardly, to be bold and daring against the principle of reason and justice, as to be bold and daring in lying and perjury.

Would we therefore exercise a true fortitude, we must do all in the spirit of devotion, be valiant against the cor^ raptions of the world, and the lusts of the flesh, and t^ temptations of the deril ; for to'be daring and coura^ ous against these enemies, is the noblest bravery that ^ Jiumaa mind is capable of.^



DE70UT AND HOLT UFE. 3«

1 have made Ais d^resuon, for the sake of those, wh« think « great devotion to be bigotry and pooroess c^ ■pint ; that by these consida rations the; may see, how poor and mean ail otber tempers are, if coDtipared to it That lluy may see, that alt worldly attaioiiteDts, irheth- cr of greatness, wisdom, or bravery, are but empty Miunds'; and there is notbiog wise or great, or noble, in a batnan spirit, bat rightly to know, and heartily to worship . and adore the great God, who is the support and life of •U apiriia, whether ia heaven or on earth.



APPENDIX.



ESCTRAOT or A LETTER FROM THE RET. WTLLUH LAW, W AKSWEB. TO ONE, REfiDESTINO A CONVERSATION ON THE SPiniTUAL LIFE.

AS fo yonr tntentioB of a virit here, I can say noth- ing to encourage it; ati^tbough my countenance would J»fl*e no tbrhidding hitb put on by myself, yet as old Hge has given me her own cemplexioD, 1 might perhaps bear the bl^e of it. iBut my chief objection against a visit ef this kind, is the reason yon give for it, viz. ; For my instructive conversation g» the *piritiuil Hfe. An ap- ^poiotmeiit for religions conversation has a taking sound ; and passeth for a sign of great pn^ressin goodness. But with regard to myself, such a meeting; would rather make me silent, than a speaker in it : tirst, because 1 hurt my- self, and am only acting a part, if I speak to persons on tpiriiital miitters, either sooner or further than the 5p»r- ji of God (which blowetb when and where it listoth) would be resisted in me, if I held my longue ; secondly, because it is deluding the persons 1 speak to, and help- ifjg them to be coAtent with an imaginnry falsehood, if, as a spiritual assistant, I speak to them of any thing, but that which is Iheir <mn evil, or their own good ; for true . edification arises only from such knowledge, and not front



OW iPPENDIX.

clevout hmnogatn on the tftinlwd K/t is funeral, though set forth JD the most enUvened words. The tpiritual life H nothing else but the working of the Spirit of God within m; and, therefort;, our own silea«e must be a great part of our preparation for it; and mach speaking, ' or a delight in it, will be often do small hindrance of that goad, which we can only have from hearing what the Spirit and Voice of God speaketh withia ni. This k not enough known by religious perstms ; they rejoice in kindling a 6re of their own, and delight loo msch in heap- ing their own voice, Bad so lose that inward unctioD from above, which alone can new create their hearts. To apeak with the tongues of men or angels on rel^oot -(natters, is a nuich less thing, than to know how to stay the m'md upon Ood, and abide with him in the closet of our hearts, observing, loving, adoring and obeying bis ho- ly power within us.

Rhetoric and fine Jongnage ahont the things of the Spirit, is a vainer babble than in other matters ;*Bod be who thinks to grow in true goodnoM by hearing or speak- ing flaming wor^ or striking expressions, as is now much the way of the world, may have a great deal of talk, bat will have but little of his ^ coDversatioa in heaven."

Ibave written very laigel/ofthe tpirituai life; and he who has read it and likes it,/faas of all men tine least reason to ask me any questions, or make any visit on that ■ubject.

He understands not my writii^s, nor the end oflbem, who does not see, that th^ir whole drift is to csH.all Christians to a Ood and Christ Within them, as the nnij* possible life, ligbt and power of all goodness they can ev- er have ; and, therefore, they turn my reader; as much from myself, as from any other " Lo here! or Lo there 1"

I invite all people to *' The marriage of the Lainb," but 00 (H^e to myself.

Your humble Servant,



I n Google



ii,.=.jnGooglc



■Pill 